The Adventurer
Theatrical release poster
Directed by Charlie Chaplin
Edward Brewer (technical
director)
Written by Charlie Chaplin (scenario)
Vincent Bryan (scenario)
Maverick Terrell (scenario)
Produced by John Jasper
Starring Charlie Chaplin
Edna Purviance
Eric Campbell
CinematographyRoland Totheroh
George C. Zalibra
Edited by Charlie Chaplin
Distributed by Mutual Film Corporation
Release date October 22, 1917
Running time 25 minutes
Country United States
Language Silent (English intertitles)
The Adventurer (1917 film)
The Adve nturer  is an American short comedy film
made in 1917 written and directed by Charlie Chaplin ,
and is the last of the twelve films made under contract
for the Mutual Film Corporation .
This film starts with a man-hunt, where the police are
hunting for an escaped convict (Charlie Chaplin) who
has cleverly eluded the guards so far. One police
officer (Henry Bergman ) is told to guard the beach in
case the escaped felon came within sight again.
However , unbeknownst to the officer, Charlie is
actually buried under sand next to the of ficer.
Fully aware of the danger , he is very cautious
regarding his escape. He unburies himself very
cautiously , however , Bergman is asleep, and he falls
back on the hole which Charlie created while un-
burying himself. Of course, Charlie makes a run, but it
is too late.
The officer fires, missing Charlie by an inch. Charlie
hurriedly climbs up a vertical wall of mud and stone,
and the officer chases after him. Charlie, however ,
finishes Bergman off by throwing a rock at him. In
vain, he shoots, but it misses Charlie's head by a mile.
A few seconds later, however , it seems Charlie is
finished when a policeman stealthily creeps up to him.
He steps on his hand, presumably to not let him
escape, presumably as a reminder that his time is up.
However , Charlie thinks it's a stray stone and covers it
with mud. When he looks up and sees the officer,
however , the chase resumes, and the Tramp eludes the
officer. Charlie runs, into a group of of ficers.
Charlie runs all the way up to the top of the dusty cliff.
Just when it seems like Charlie is free, another officer
leaps in out of nowhere and shoots Charlie. However ,PlotThe Adventurer
From left to right are Henry
Bergman, Marta Golden, Edna
Purviance, Eric Campbell and
Charlie Chaplin in a scene still
from the filmthe shot missed its mark, and Charlie , feigning
death, fools the officer successfully . In the middle
of the check-up to make sure the convict was
dead, Charlie kicks him down the hill.
He takes the officer's hiding place (a disguised
hole in the rock)  while Bergman and his
companion come to that same spot looking for
Charlie. Charlie sees them and makes a stealthy
escape—however , not stealthy enough to alert
them at the last moment.
Charlie comes through to the other end of the
hole, grabs a police officer's gun, and uses this to
threaten the police. Meanwhile, he tiptoes
backwards, trips against a stray rock, and accidentally fires at
Bergman. The shot was not fatal, but irritates him.
Helpless, Charlie swims towards the deep seas. The policemen chase
him in a boat. Of course, they are unprepared for the high tide, and a
huge wave knocks them over. Charlie  swims over towards a boat
where a man is desperately trying to take of f his wet shirt.
The scene cuts towards a girl and her lover (Edna Purviance  and Eric
Campbell ). They realize Edna's mother (Marta Golden ) is drowning.
They go over to help her. Edna begs Campbell to help, but he refuses
because of his weig ht. She jumps in, while Campbell leans against
the fence and hawks  at her. However , this man's weight causes him to
fall in the water .
Hearing the chaos ensuing between Cam pbell, Edna and her mother , Charlie, who had just found some
dry land, decides to investigate. He jumps back into the water and swims over to where he thinks the
chaos is taking place . He finds Edna on the shore, frantic, and Edna, seeing Charlie, begs him to save her
mother . Charlie saves Edna first, then her mother , then swims towards Campbell and swims circles
around him. Finally , he uses his beard to pull himself back to shore.
He then rescues everybody else. The authorities arrive, and Edna's unconscious mother is the first to go
into the ambulance. However , she soon gains her consciousness, and Charli e lies to her, and before
heading back to rescue Campbell, in the process unintentionally tossing him back into the water . He goes
back and rescues Campbell. However , in the process, Charlie hurts himself and lies down on the shore,
helpless and unable to walk. Howeve r, a policeman saw him, called Edna, and rescues the injured
Charlie.
Charlie now wakes up in the house of Edna, the woman he now loves. However , him wearing his striped
pajamas, and lying in a bed with bars at the head, makes him think he is in priso n, which is cleared when
the butler enters with a towel. Edna and Charlie go to the balcony to socialize, where Charlie accidentally
kicks Campbell. Campbell thinks it is intentional, however , and kicks him back. They go on kicking each0:00
other for a while, till a lady intervenes between Charlie and Campbell. Since Campbell and Charlie had
their back s to each other , Campbell couldn't see the lady intervening. Therefo re, he kicks her buttock,
thinking it's Charlie's he's kicked. He gets embarrassed by his blunder , and the others are bothered by it.
Inside, while Edna plays the piano, Campbell tries getting revenge but to no avail. Charlie sloshes a
whole lot of beer on him, and he retreats. However , when he does, he sees Charlie's face on the
newspaper , under the headline "Criminal Escapes: Convict Still at Lar ge".
Of course, this was a good way of getting revenge. Therefore, when Charlie talks away with Edna's
father , who was Judge Brown, the man who sentenced him to prison, Charlie is scared. But he acts calm,
going under the alias "Commodore Slick". However , at the worst possible moment, Campbell barges in,
shoves Charlie out and tells Judge Brow n to come look at the newspaper . When  Charlie comes across the
headline, he is scared stiff and nervous. As a last resort, he takes out his pen and draws a beard, so
(hopefully) Judge Brown thinks Campbell is the convict.
Of course, Brown falls for the trap. When a determined Campbell stalks in with the judge, he grabs the
paper and shows it to Brown. Of cours e, Brown thinks that this man has got it wrong, and shows it to
Charlie. Charlie looks at the paper , and looks back at Ber gman.
He talks to everybo dy inside, trying to blend in after that near brush with Judge Brown. He talks to
everybody , including Edna, and then decides to go to the kitchen with Edna.
But in the kitchen, the cook is giving a meal to her policeman friend, so when the knock sounds, the
policeman hurriedly goes towards the closet. Charlie and Edna enter just as she is closing the door, so
Charlie is curious. He opens the closet, sees the policeman and, in an instant, closes the door and darts out
of the room.
What follows is a nerve-wracking chase with some slapstick overtures. Seve ral times, Charlie comes
close to getting caught. Several times, he survives by the skin of his teeth. And, in the end, one police
officer corners him. It looks like the end, like Charlie will finally be apprehended—until Charlie outwits
him. He introduces the policeman and Edna, and when the policeman is taking his police hat off, Charlie
breaks away from his grasp and runs away , the police chasing him.
Charlie Chaplin  - The Convict
Edna Purviance  - The Girl
Eric Campbell  - The Suitor
Henry Bergman  - The Father
Albert Austin  - The Butler
Marta Golden  - The Girl's Mother
May White  - Lady
Frank J. Coleman  - Prison Guard (uncredited)Cast
Critical r eceptionChaplin broadened the scope of his comedic delivery considerably during his time with Mutual, and this
picture is another wherein he made bold choices that departed from the old form at of his films. This was
acknowledged by a reviewer from The Moving Picture World that began with the byline: "Latest Mutual-
Chaplin Comedy Moves Upward in Grade But Loses None of Comedian's Usual Amount of Laughs." He
continued: "There is very little of the old slapstick, custard pie type of comedy used in this picture, but
the comed ian has introduced a generous share of sure-fire comedy business, and he still retains his
unmatchable ability to plant a swift kick at any and all times where it will do the most good and the least
harm."[1]
A re-release of the film inspired this enthusiastic review in the August 16, 1920 New York Times. This
was written during a period in which Chaplin's film output was practically nonexistent.
"On the Rivoli program, and also at the Rialto, is a Chaplin revival. The Adventur er, which
makes one wish, between laughs, that the screen's best comedian would get to work and do
what every one know s he is capable of. There is a slap-stick  coarse humor in The Adven turer,
but also some of Chaplin's most irresistible pantomime ."[2]
In 1932, Amedee Van Beuren  of Van Beuren Studios, purchased Chaplin's Mutual comedies for $10,000
each, added music by Gene Rodemich  and Winston Sharples  and sound effects, and re-released them
through RKO Radio Pictures . Chaplin had no legal recourse to stop the RKO release.[3]
List of American films of 1917
Charlie Chaplin filmography
1. Chalmers Publishing Company (1917). Moving Picture World (Nov 1917)  (http://archive.org/
details/mopict34chal) . New York The Museum of Modern Art Library . New York, Chalmers
Publishing Company .
2. Movies2.nytimes.com  (https://movies2.nytimes.com/mem/movies/review .html?title1=&title2=
Adventurer%2C%20The&reviewer=&v_id=239712&pdate=1920081)
3. SilentComedians entry  (http://www .silentcomedians.com/forum/viewtopic.php?p=14370)
Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20140112221027/http://www .silentcomedians.com/for
um/viewtopic.php?p=14370)  2014-01-12 at the Wayback Machine
The short film The Adventurer  (https://archive.org/details/CC_1917_10_22_TheAdventurer)
is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive .
The Adventurer  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0007613/)  at IMDbSound version
See also
Refer ences
External linksThe Adventurer  (https://www .youtube.com/watch?v=hvhVtPkUDBI)  on YouTube
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Adventurer_(1917_film)&oldid=1246834201"
