Three Missing Links
Directed by Jules White
Written by Searle Kramer
Produced by Jules White
Starring Moe Howard
Larry Fine
Curly Howard
James C. Morton
Monte Collins
Jane Hamilton
John Lester Johnson
Ray "Crash" Corrigan
Tanner the Lion
Cinematography Henry Freulich
Edited by Charles Nelson
Distributed by Columbia Pictures
Release date July 29, 1938 (U.S.)
Running time 18:04
Country United States
Language English
Three Missing Links
Three Missing Links  is a 1938 short subject  directed
by Jules White  starring American slapstick  comedy
team The Three Stooges  (Moe Howard , Larry Fine and
Curly Howard ). It is the 33rd entry in the series
released by Columbia Pictures  starring the comedians,
who appearing in 190 shorts for the studio between
1934 and 1959.
The Stooges are employed at the esteemed bastion of
cinematic creativity , Super Terrific Productions, a
venerable institutio n nestled within the heart of
Hollywood. The trio assumes custodial  duties, tasked
with main taining the sanctity of the studio's environs.
However , their ostensibly mundane responsibilities
take an unexpected turn when they inadvertently incite
pandemonium within the inner sanctum of B. O.
Botswaddle, the discerning curator entrusted with
evaluating scripts for the forthcoming magnum opus,
Jilted in the Jungle . Despite the chaos ensuing from
their inadvertent actions, a serendipitous turn of events
transpires as Curly , through a displa y of physical
comedy replete with an uncanny impersonation of a
chicken with its head cut off, captivate s Botswaddle's
attention. Botswaddle identifies Curly as the
embodiment of a primeval archetyp e, colloquially
known as the "missing link", thereby elevating the trio
from custodial obscurity to the forefron t of cinematic
recognition.
Accompanied by Moe and Larry , Curly embarks on a
cinematic journey that leads them to the lush expanses
of Africa, where the verdant tapestry of the jungle
provides the backdrop for their artistic pursuits. Amidst the intricacies of setting  up camp, Curly embarks
on a curious transaction with a purveyor of unconventional remedies, procuring "love candy" in a bid to
captivate the affections of the leading lady, Mirabel Mirabel. However , the tranquility of the nocturnal
hours is punctuated by an encounter with the untamed denizens of the wildernes s, as a curious lion's foray
into their encampment prompts a hasty retreat of the Stooges.PlotThe following day descends into chaos as Curly , garbed in a simian costume for a scene, unwittingly
becomes embroiled in a confrontation with a genuine gorilla native to the jungle. This unforeseen
encounter sparks pandemonium, disrupt ing the harmonious workings of the film set and compelling the
crew to hastily retreat. In a series of misguided events, Curly inadvertently ingests the "love candy" in an
attempt to soothe the agitated gorilla, thus becoming enamored with the creature. Consequently , Curly
embarks on a zealous pursuit of his newfound object of af fection.
Moe Howard  as Moe
Larry Fine  as Larry
Curly Howard  as Curly
Monte Collins  as Herbert Herringbone
Jane Hamilton  as Mirabel Mirabel
Ray "Crash" Corrigan  as Naba the gorilla[1]
James C. Morton  as B. O. Botswaddle
John Lester Johnson  as Dr . Ba Loni  Sulami
Tanner the Lion  as Lion [1]
Three Missing Links  was filmed on April 7–12, 1938.[1] It is the fourth of sixteen Stooge shorts to use the
word "three" in the title and the first entry directed by Columbia Pictures Short Subject head Jules
White .[2]
The clip of the Stooges arguing in B. O. Botswaddle's office was featured prominently in the 1989 film
Lethal W eapon 2 .[3]
Tanner the Lion  appears before the final act of the film, having previously appeared in Wee Wee
Monsieur  from the same year , and Movie Maniacs  from 2 years prior .
Moe:  "We're terrific!"
Larry:  "We're colossal!"Cast
Credited
Uncredited
Production notes
QuotesCurly:  "We're even mediocre!"
1. Three Missing Links  at threestooges.net  (https://threestooges.net/filmography/episode/34)
2. Solomon, Jon  (2002). The Complete Three Stooges: The Official Filmography and Three
Stooges Companion . Comedy III Productions, Inc. p. 135. ISBN  0-9711868-0-4 .
3. Wilmington, Michael (July 7, 1989). "Movie Review: A Lethal 'W eapon 2' " (https://www .latim
es.com/archives/la-xpm-1989-07-07-ca-3330-story .html) . Los Angeles T imes . Retrieved
April 22,  2018 .
Three Missing Links  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0030868/)  at IMDb
‹The template AllMovie title is being considered for deletion.› Three Missing Links  (https://www .allmo
vie.com/movie/v143127)  at AllMovie
Three Missing Links  at threestooges.net  (http://www .threestooges.net/filmography/episode/3
4)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Three_Missing_Links&oldid=1240456299"Refer ences
External links
