Manevri na petiya etazh
Directed by Petar B. Vasilev
Written by Chavdar Shinov
Produced by Yanko Mutafchiev
Starring Stefan Danailov
Velko Kanev
Anton Radichev
Cinematography Pavel Milkov
Edited by Atanas Tsenev
Music by Petar Stupel
Distributed by Boyana Film
Release date 1985 (Bulgaria)
Running time 95 min.
Language Bulgarian
Manevri na petiya etazh
Manevri na petiya etazh  (Bulgarian language :
Маневри на петия етаж, English language :
Maneuvers on the Fifth Floor ) is a comedy  movie
released in Bulgaria  in 1985 . It was directed by Petar
B. Vasilev  and written by Chavdar Shinov . It is a nice
presentation of the passions and the intrigues
developing in a socialist firm in mid-eighties, when it
comes to business trips abroad.
Three colleagues and devoted friends – Danton, Petar
and Andre y – share an office and not only on the fifth
floor of a socialist industrial research institute from the
mid-eighties. Every morning when they come to work
they lock the door of the office and, armed with
binoculars and great interest, they begin watching the
aerobics exercises of a young girl in the nearby
building. Suddenly , their tranquil daily round is disturbed - a new director takes over the Institute and
decides to develop close scientific partnerships with similar institutes in Japan. A rumor has it that one of
our three friends will go on a business trip there. But who? The three friends are now rivals. Homo
homini lupus est! All the three undertake sophisticated underground maneuvers in order to get the prize.
Everything is at stake! There is only one rule and it is there are NO rules! At the end, of course, it turns
out everything has been in vain. The one to go to Japan is the director .
Numerous situations filled with humor follow and, at the very end, after the grotesque outcome, we can
see the three friends together again. But this time, much wiser… perhaps.
Stefan Danailov  - Danton Tahov
Velko Kanev - Petar Petkin
Anton Radichev - Andrey Granitski
Ventzislav V alchev - Rusev
Vasil Stoychev - Kostadinov
Ivan Grigorov - Sotirov
Maria Stefanova - Michona
Aneta Sotirova - Stefcheto
Maria Statoulova - Petkina
Iskra Radeva - TahovaPlot
CastValentina Borisova - Peeva
Marina Kostova - V eneta
Maya Zurkova - ex-T ahova
Ivan Yanchev - the father in law
Yasen Milevin - the son of Tahov
Bozhidar Iskrenov  - the elevator technician
List of Bulgarian films
Manevri na petiya etazh  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0372402/)  at IMDb
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Manevri_na_petiya_etazh&oldid=1223695986"See also
External links
