American Hot Wax
Theatrical release poster
Directed by Floyd Mutrux
Screenplay by John Kaye
Story by John Kaye
Art Linson
Produced by Art Linson
Starring Tim McIntire
Fran Drescher
Jay Leno
Laraine Newman
Moosie Drier
Jeff Altman
John Lehne
Richard Perry
Chuck Berry
Jerry Lee Lewis
Screamin' Jay Hawkins
Frankie Ford
Charles Greene
CinematographyWilliam A. Fraker
Edited by Ronald J. Fagan
Melvin Shapiro
Danford B. Greene (sup)
American Hot Wax
American Hot Wax is a 1978 biographical film
directed by Floyd Mutrux  with a screenplay by John
Kaye  from a story by John Kaye and Art Linson . The
film tells the story of pioneering disc jockey  Alan
Freed , who in the 1950s helped introduce and
popularize rock and roll, and is often credited with
coining the term "rock 'n' roll". The film starred Tim
McIntire , Fran Dres cher, Jay Leno, Laraine Newman ,
Jeff Altman , and Moosie Drier . It also featured musical
performances by Chuck Berry , Jerry Lee Lewis ,
Frankie Ford , Screamin' Jay Hawkins , and Brooklyn
Dreams  as "Professor La Plano and The Plano tones".
The film was not a box-of fice success.
A&M Records  released a two-record soundtrack album
featuring the film's live Brooklyn Paramount
performances on record one (in stereo) and the film's
soundtrack (the original monophonic  hit record ings) on
record two. The LP reached number 31 on the
Billboar d charts.
Producer Art Linson  discusses the movi e's production
and its box office failure in his book What Just
Happened? Bitter Hollywood Tales from the Front
Line.
In late-1950s New York City, WROL  disc jockey Alan
Freed (Tim McIntire) promotes his upcoming rock n'
roll show at the Brooklyn Paramount Theater ,
headlined by Chuck Berry and Jerry Lee Lewis.
Freed's radio program is hugely popular with
teenagers, and the Paramount show is expected to sell
out, despite concern that the police will shut it down as
they did with Freed's previous show in Boston . Local
law enforcement, led by D.A. Coleman (John Lehne),
targets Freed for allegedly inciting teenagers to wild
and immoral behavior by broadcastin g raucous and
sexually suggestive rock n' roll songs, many of them
by black musicians. WROL  station management alsoPlotMusic by Kenny Vance
Production
companyParamount Pictures
Distributed by Paramount Pictures
Release date March 17, 1978
Running time 91 minutes
Country United States
Language English
Box office $11,000,000[1]dislike Freed's unconventional programming habits,
including playing songs that the station has banned
such as "Tutti Frutti"  by Little Richard . Freed
nevertheless rejects all suggestions that he change his
programming style  and feature more socially
acceptable musical acts, such as Pat Boone . He also
refuses to sign a statement declaring that he never
accepted anything in return for playing a record, on the
grounds that signing it would be a lie and that all disc
jockeys, including  those who have signed the
statement, take such bribes.
Because Freed has the power to make a record a hit by playing it on his show , he is constantly besieged
by record promoters and artist manager s. He avoids most of these people, but takes an interest in those
who share his love for rock n' roll. He repeatedly rebuf fs the aggressive record promoter Lennie Richfield
(Jeff Altman), but is kind to Artie Moress (Moosie Drier), a young boy who is the president of a Buddy
Holly  fan club, and even puts Artie on the air to talk about his idol Holly . Freed also encourages Louise
(Laraine Newman), a white teenage songwriter whose parents ignore her talent and disapprove of her
associating with the Chesterfields, a black doo-wop  group who perform  her songs. Freed himself suffers
discrimination when he takes a racially mixed group of teenagers with him to look at a luxury home he
wants to buy; the owner refuses to sell to him at any price. Freed's own father back in Akron, Ohio  also
rejects him, returning a check Freed sent him and refusing to talk on the telephone with his son.
The Paramount show goes on despite Coleman's attempts to stop it, including a failed attempt at a drug
bust. Loui se is moved to tears after the Chesterfields, a late addition to the show , perform her songs to
thunderous applause from the capacity crowd. Freed's feisty young secretary Sheryl (Fran Drescher) and
his chauf feur Mookie (Jay Leno), who have constantly bickered on the job, finally bond over their shared
love of Freed and rock n' roll, and begin a romance. Mid-show , IRS agents appear and seize all the
proceeds from the box office, leaving Freed with no money to pay his artists. However , Chuck Berry
saves the day by doing Freed the favor of performing for free. Jerry Lee Lewis,  who initially had said he
was not coming, then arrives at the last minute and closes the show as the police try to shut it down
because teenagers are "dancing in the aisles". As the police begin clearing the theater with Lewis still
performing onstage, chaos breaks out and the film abruptly ends, with an epilogue stating that this was
Freed's last performance, and that he was taken off the air, indicted, moved to California , and died five
years later , penniless, but that rock n' roll lives on.
Tim McIntire —Alan Freed
Fran Drescher —Sheryl
Jay Leno —Mookie (Michael)
Laraine Newman —Teenaged Louise
Moosie Drier —Artie Moress
Jeff Altman —Lennie Richfield
John Lehne—D.A. Coleman
Richard Perry —Record producerCastPerformers
Chuck Berry —Himself
Jerry Lee Lewis —Himself
Screamin' Jay Hawkins —Himself
Frankie Ford —Himself
Charles Greene—Chuck Otis
The Chesterfields
Carl Earl W eaver
Al Chalk
Sam Harkness
Arnold McCuller
The Delights
Stephanie Spruill
Joyce King
Yolanda Howard
Brenda Russell
Timmy and The Tulips (erroneously shown as "T immy and The Tangerines" in the end credits)
Charles Irwin—T immy
Jeanne Shef field
Jo Ann Harris
The Planotones
Kenny V ance —Professor La Plano
Joe Esposito
Bruce Sudano
Ed Hokenson
The film was a box-of fice bomb . However , head of Paramount Michael Eisner  loved the movie and saw it
nearly a dozen times.[2] Critic Pauline Kael  prais ed the performances and approvingly called the film "a
super B-movie " and "trashily enjoyable".[3] Janet Maslin  of The New York Times wrote that "'Americ an
Hot Wax,' which has a plot so thin you could thread a needle with it, chooses  to see the era strictly in
terms of the B-mo vie melodramas it produced."[4] Arthur D. Murph y of Variety  called the film
"unpretentious and enjoyable."[5] Gene Siskel  gave the film three stars out of four and wrote, "At its
worst, 'Hot Wax' comes off as a 92-minute, 'blasts-from-the-past,' TV record offer ... At its best, the film
does manage to suggest some of the frenzied innocence of rock's early days, before rock became a
multibillion-dollar industry ."[6] Kevin Thomas of the Los Angel es Times found the film "enjo yable and at
times poignant", although he noted the film seemed "evasive" on the issue of "Freed's involvement with
payola  (a word, incidentally , never heard in the film)."[7] Gary Arnold of The Washington Post wrote,Reception and legacy"Director Floyd Mutrux and screenwriter John Kaye evidently fail to perceive that the liveliest elements
in their movie contra dict their admiring view of Freed as a pop-culture hero and martyr ... the filmmakers
insist on looking at their subject matter through rose-colored glasses."[8]
Author Charles Taylor included this film in his 2017 book Opening Wednesday at a Theater or Drive-in
Near Y ou.[9]
Chart (1978)Peak
position
Australia (Kent Music Report)[10]68
1. Box Of fice Information for American Hot W ax (http://www .the-numbers.com/movie/American
-Hot-W ax#tab=summary) . The Numbers . Retrieved July 18, 2014.
2. Champlin, Charles (July 7, 1978). "What to Do for an Encore: CRITIC AT LARGE". Los
Angeles T imes . p. h1.
3. Kael, Pauline  (2011) [1991]. 5001 Nights at the Movies  (https://books.google.com/books?id=
w4LzeUZ03vQC) . New York: Henry Holt and Company . p. 22. ISBN  978-1-250-03357-4 .
4. Maslin, Janet (March 17, 1978). "Screen: 'American Hot W ax'". The New York T imes . C13.
5. Murphy , Arthur D. (March 15, 1978). "Film Reviews: American Hot W ax". Variety . 21.
6. Siskel, Gene (March 21, 1978). "Phonographic memory blurs the 'Hot W ax' facts". Chicago
Tribune . Section 4, p. 5.
7. Thomas, Kevin (March 17, 1978). "Freed as a Hero in 'Hot W ax'". Los Angeles T imes . Part
IV, p. 30.
8. Arnold, Gary (March 18, 1978). "'Hot W ax' W axes Nostalgic". The W ashington Post . C7.
9. A sharp new book lets '70s B-movies tell the story of an under-seen America|A V Club  (http
s://www .avclub.com/a-sharp-new-book-lets-70s-b-movies-tell-the-story-of-a-1798191503)
10. Kent, David  (1993). Australian Chart Book 1970–1992  (illustrated ed.). St Ives, N.S.W .:
Australian Chart Book. p. 321. ISBN  0-646-11917-6 .
New Hollywood
United States in the 1950s
American Hot W ax (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0077158/)  at IMDb
American Hot W ax (https://www .tcm.com/tcmdb/title/3972/enwp)  at the TCM Movie
DatabaseCharts
Refer ences
See also
External links‹The template AllMovie title is being considered for deletion.› American Hot W ax (https://www .allmovi
e.com/movie/v83629)  at AllMovie
American Hot W ax (https://catalog.afi.com/Catalog/moviedetails/54394)  at the AFI Catalog
of Feature Films
American Hot W ax (https://www .rottentomatoes.com/m/american-hot-wax)  at Rotten
Tomatoes
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=American_Hot_Wax&oldid=1258691922"
