David Sumner , a timid American mathematician, leaves the chaos of college anti-war protests to live with his young wife, Amy ([[Susan George , in her hometown of Wakely, a fictional village in Cornwall, England. Almost immediately, there is tension between the couple as David becomes immersed in his academic work and differing ideas regarding the nature of their relationship come to light: David wants the traditional division of tasks, with the man earning wages, and the wife satisfying his needs in the kitchen and bed. Amy wants greater participation from David if she is going to accept such a role: she wants him to perform all the traditionally male tasks, like fixing the toaster, but also to involve himself in her community. Chris Cawsey ([[Jim Norton , Norman Scutt , Riddaway , and Amy's former lover, Charlie Venner , are Wakely locals hired to renovate the Sumners' isolated farmhouse. They openly resent David for his intellectual pursuits, and persistently harass him. When Amy discovers their cat strangled and hanging by a light chain in their bedroom closet, Amy claims the workmen did it to intimidate David. She presses him to confront the villagers, but he refuses. David tries to win their friendship, and they invite him to go hunting in the woods the next day. During the trip, David is taken to a remote forest meadow and left there, after the workmen promise to drive the birds towards him. Having ditched David, Venner returns to the couple's farmhouse where he rapes Amy. Scutt arrives, forces Venner to hold Amy down, and rapes Amy as well. After several hours, David realizes he's been tricked and returns home to find a disheveled and withdrawn Amy. She does not tell him about the rapes. The next day, David fires the workmen, claiming that they have performed poorly and wasted time. Later that week, the Sumners attend a church social where Amy becomes distraught after seeing the men who raped her. They leave the social early, and, while driving home through thick fog, accidentally hit the local village idiot Henry Niles ([[David Warner , whom they take to their home. David phones the local pub about the accident. However, earlier that evening Niles had accidentally strangled a flirtatious young girl from the village, Janice Hedden , and now her father, the town drunkard, Tom , and the workmen looking for him are alerted by the phone call to Niles's whereabouts. Soon the drunken locals, including Amy's rapists, are pounding on the door of the Sumners' home. After a few minutes of their breaking the windows and hammering on the door, the local magistrate, Major John Scott , arrives and after attempting to defuse the situation, is shot dead by Tom. At this point the father and the workmen agree that they cannot go back on what they have done, but only continue. David realizes that they will not allow anyone in the house to live and begins preparing to defend his home. First he heats two saucepans of cooking oil. Then, when one of the locals attempts to enter through the window, he ties his hands together at knifepoint. As more men appear at another window, he scalds them with the boiling oil, temporarily incapacitating them. Then he lays down a large mantrap in his living room and sends Amy upstairs to hide. When Tom and Cawsey enter and attempt to shoot David, he knocks the shotgun out of Tom's hands, causing it to fire and mangle the man's foot, mortally wounding him. He then engages in a fight with Cawsey, beating him to death with a fire poker. Finally, Charlie appears and holds David at gunpoint, but before he can shoot him, the two hear Amy screaming. As they both run upstairs, the fifth man, Scutt, is there. He tells Charlie to take David downstairs and kill him, so they can rape Amy again. Instead, Charlie shoots Scutt and David begins to fight Charlie. As they reach the living room, David, despite Amy's pleas not to, kills Charlie by springing the mantrap over his head, crushing his neck. As David looks at the carnage around him, he murmurs, "Jesus, I got 'em all." He is then attacked by another villager and, losing the struggle, asks Amy to fetch the shotgun and shoot him. Amy hesitates before retrieving the weapon and shooting the villager. David is driving Niles to town when the latter turns and says, "I don't know my way home." David smiles and replies, "That's okay. I don't either."In the summer of 1959, local boy Danny Zuko and vacationing Sandy Olsson meet at the beach and fall in love. When the summer comes to an end, Sandy—who is going back to Australia—frets that they may never meet again, but Danny tells her that their love is "only the beginning". The film moves to the start of the seniors' term at Rydell High School. Danny, a greaser, is a member of the T-Birds, consisting of his best friend Kenickie, Doody, Putzie and Sonny. The Pink Ladies also arrive, consisting of Betty Rizzo, Janet and Marty. After her parents decided not to return to Australia, Sandy enrolls at Rydell and befriends Frenchy , who considers dropping out of school to become a beautician. Oblivious to each other's presence at school, Danny and Sandy tell their respective groups the accounts of events during the pair's brief romance. Upon learning Danny is Sandy's lover, Rizzo arranges for the two to reunite, but Danny is forced to maintain his bad-boy attitude in front of his friends, upsetting Sandy. Frenchy invites the girls to a sleepover, but Sandy falls ill from trying a cigarette and drinking. The T-Birds almost crash the party, but a guilty Danny leaves, followed by Rizzo, who departs to make out with Kenickie, who is actually her boyfriend. The two are disturbed by Leo, leader of the T-Birds' rival gang, the Scorpions, and his girlfriend Cha-Cha, leading to a planned race between Kenickie and Leo. Wishing to win his way back into Sandy's affection, Danny turns to Coach Calhoun to get into sports, eventually becoming a runner. He reunites with Sandy and they attempt to go on a date, but their friends crash it, resulting in Kenickie and Rizzo breaking after a fight. Left alone, Frenchy is visited by a guardian angel who advises her to return to school. The school dance arrives, broadcast live on television and hosted by DJ Vince Fontaine, who flirts with Marty. Rizzo and Kenickie attempt to spite one another by bringing Leo and Cha-Cha as their dates, whilst Danny and Sandy come together. During a dance, Danny and Cha-Cha  perform together and win a dance-off. Danny tries to make it up to Sandy by taking her to a drive-in theater but ends up making several passes on her, causing Sandy to flee. Meanwhile, Rizzo fears she is pregnant after missing a period and confides to Marty, but Sonny overhears and spreads the rumour which eventually reaches Kenickie who is the potential father. The race arrives, but Kenickie is knocked out by his own car door so Danny takes up the challenge. He and Leo race until Leo crashes and leaves humiliated, with Danny as the victor. Sandy watches from afar, concluding she still loves Danny and decides to change her attitude and look to impress him. On the last day of school, whilst Principal McGee and her assistant Blanche sob about the departing class, the class celebrates their graduation at the fair on the school grounds. Rizzo discovers she is not pregnant after all and reunites with Kenickie. Danny has become a jock, but is shocked when Sandy appears dressed in leather and is seen smoking. In song, the two admit they love each other and reunite. The film ends with Danny and Sandy departing in Danny's car together, which then takes flight, and the pair waves goodbye to their friends as they live happily ever after.A lewd old lady claiming to be Mother Goose has been put on trial for obscenity, and the evidence being presented is a collection of pornographic animated shorts. Little Red Riding Hood, Jack of Jack and the Beanstalk fame, Cinderella and Snow White are among the most notable participants in what becomes an all out fairy tale orgy.Harry Coombes  is an elderly widower who is forced from his Upper West Side apartment in New York City when his building is condemned. He initially stays with his son's family in the suburbs but eventually chooses to travel cross country with his pet cat "Tonto" in tow. Initially planning to fly to Chicago, he instead boards a long-distance bus, then later impulsively buys a used car to continue the journey. During his episodic journey, he befriends a Bible-quoting hitchhiker ([[Michael Butler , travels with underage runaway Ginger , visits his daughter , a bookstore owner in Chicago, and drops in on an early sweetheart in a retirement home who suffers from dementia. Later he accepts a ride with a health-food salesman, spends a night in jail with a friendly Native Indian chief, and finally meets his youngest son  in Los Angeles, where he tutors children and is invited to room with a friendly widow. His cat figures prominently throughout the film.Monroe Stahr  is the young production chief and the most important executive of one of the biggest studios of the Golden Age of Hollywood. An unstoppable worker in a time of turmoil in the industry due to the creation of the Writers Guild of America, his life flows between shootings, industry bosses' machinations, discussions with scriptwriters and actors, a battle with the union organizer and an infatuation for a young woman with a troubled past, who is engaged to be married with another man, and for whom he develops true love. As his difficulties grow bigger and his health decreases, his life runs to an uncertain but inevitable twilight that echoes a long gone era.The newborn son of Robert Thorn  and his wife, Katherine , dies shortly after birth in Rome. Robert is coerced by Father Spiletto ([[Martin Benson  into substituting for the dead child an orphan whose mother died at the same moment, without telling Katherine. Out of concern for his wife's mental well-being, Robert agrees. They name the child Damien Thorn . Soon after, Robert is named U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain. While posted in England, Robert is plagued by several mysterious events. Damien's nanny publicly hangs herself at his fifth birthday party and a new nanny, Mrs. Baylock , suddenly arrives to replace her, also bringing an evil Rottweiler dog with her. Father Brennan  is aware of Damien's satanic origins and he explains them to Robert, who refuses to believe him. Brennan also warns Robert that his wife is pregnant, that Damien intends to kill the unborn child and that eventually he will kill Robert, too. The priest subsequently dies when a lightning rod falls on him and impales him through the side of his neck. Katherine tells Robert that she is pregnant but miscarries when she is knocked off a balcony by Damien. Following Father Brennan's death, and while piecing together other clues, photographer Keith Jennings ([[David Warner  begins investigating Damien after noticing marks on photographs of people that seem to predict their subsequent deaths. Keith travels with Robert as they investigate Damien's birth. They visit the Rome hospital but find that a fire destroyed the hospital records and maternity and nursery wards. Robert and Keith visit Father Spiletto at a rural monastery and discover he has been burned on his right half and struck mute. They are sent to a ruined cemetery and find a jackal's skeleton in Damien's mother's grave, and discover that Robert and Katherine's child was murdered to place Damien in their care. These shocking discoveries force Robert and Keith to believe Father Brennan's warning that Damien is the Antichrist. While Robert is away, Katherine is recuperating in the hospital from her injuries. All seems to go fine, when Mrs. Baylock suddenly appears and pushes her through a window, sending her body crashing into a parked ambulance. Robert travels with Keith to Israel to find Bugenhagen, an archaeologist who knows how to stop the Antichrist. Bugenhagen reveals that Damien will possess a birthmark in the shape of three sixes if he is the Antichrist. Robert learns that the only way to kill Damien is to stab him with the seven daggers of Megiddo. Refusing to murder what he believes is an innocent child, Robert throws the pack of daggers away from them. When Keith bends to retrieve them, a sheet of glass slides off a runaway truck, flies into him, and decapitates him. Horrified by Keith's death and having recovered the daggers, Robert returns to England and finds the birthmark buried under the hair on Damien's scalp. Mrs. Baylock attempts to murder Robert, but is stabbed through the side of her neck with a carving fork. Robert flees his residence with Damien, to kill him on hallowed ground, and is pursued by a security detail. After breaking into a church, Robert raises a dagger to stab Damien but is shot and killed before he can do so. Damien is placed in the care of the U.S. President, who is Robert's brother. They attend the funeral of Katherine and Robert, who receive an honorable burial and blessing by a Catholic priest. The camera then pans down on Damien, who turns to the audience and smiles innocently while "Ave Satani" plays.Lou Friedlander is a popular newspaper columnist for the New York Daily News. His life changes dramatically upon falling in love with neighbor Sarah Gantz, a young ballerina. She is about to become disabled through a serious illness.Barbara Hershey portrays a flower child who is hired to have the baby of a middle-class couple ([[Collin Wilcox . The film exposes the clash of values between Hershey, along with her boyfriend , and the couple. It also deals with the emotional turmoil all four characters go through.Casper and his friend Hairy Scary are in a house about to be demolished on Christmas Eve and go out to look for a new place to move to after Christmas. Then Yogi and his friends get lost and arrive at Casper and Hairy's house and clean and decorate it to celebrate Christmas. Then Casper befriends Yogi and company only for Hairy to try to ruin the fun for Casper and his new friends. Then Hairy has a change of heart and celebrates Christmas with Casper and his new friends and ending with Santa Claus saving the house and turning it into Hairy's Haunting Lodge.Madame Rosa  is a frail, aging, retired Jewish prostitute and Auschwitz survivor who earns a meager living by caring for the children of younger female sex workers, as well as for Momo  , a young Arab boy on the verge of adolescence. Momo hasn't seen his parents in years. He and Madame Rosa struggle to make ends meet, and as her body and mind start to fail, it becomes clear that Momo is the only person she has left in the world. Despite his young age, he has to help Madame Rosa who refuses to be hospitalized. He will stay with her as she faces her ultimate fears and prepares for her last and most difficult voyage.Paul Kersey  and his wife Joanna  vacation in Hawaii. They return to New York City, where Paul works as an architect. Joanna and their daughter Carol Anne  shop for groceries at D'Agostino's Market. Three bloodthirsty hooligans  are creating havoc in the local grocery store. They catch Joanna's address after she asks that her groceries be delivered. They follow her to the apartment, burst in and trash the apartment. They search for money but find only $7. The hooligans then rape Carol and savagely beat Joanna, escaping scot-free. Paul's son-in-law Jack Toby  calls to tell him only that Joanna and Carol are in the hospital. After waiting impatiently, Paul is told by a doctor that his daughter is OK and that she was sedated and put to bed, but Paul is also informed that his wife has died. Devastated, he is told by police that the likelihood of catching the criminals is small. The next day, Paul's boss gives him an extended business vacation to Tucson, Arizona to meet a client, Ames Jainchill , who shows him the ropes. Paul witnesses a mock gunfight at Old Tucson, a reconstructed Western frontier town used as a movie set. At a gun club, Ames is impressed when Paul shoots near bulls-eye accuracy. Paul reveals that he was a "CO"  during the Korean War who served his country as a combat medic. Paul had been taught to handle firearms at a young age by his father, but after his father was killed in a hunting accident Paul decided to forswear the use of firearms for any purpose. After Paul makes substantial improvements to Ames' plans for a residential development, a thoroughly pleased Ames drops him at the airport, slipping a little going-away present into Paul's bag. Back in Manhattan, his daughter is catatonic. Paul opens his suitcase and discovers that Ames' "going-away present" is a nickel-plated .32 Colt Police Positive revolver. He pockets the gun and takes a stroll. Paul encounters a mugger, an ex-convict named Thomas Leroy Marston who attempts to rob him at gunpoint with a .38 Smith & Wesson Model 36 revolver. Paul shoots him with the revolver, killing him. Shocked that he just killed a human being, Paul runs home and throws up. But his vigilantism continues the following night, when he guns down three more men who are robbing a defenseless old man in a vacant alley. A few nights later, two muggers see Paul on a subway. They attempt to rob him at knife-point but Paul shoots them both with the revolver. The next scene has Paul then sitting in a sleazy Times Square coffee shop surrounded by prostitutes and assorted street people. He pays his bill to the cashier purposely revealing a wallet full of cash. He leaves followed by two thugs who have taken the bait. Yet again a robbery attempt is made. Paul shoots one but the other manages to stab him in his shoulder. As a wounded Paul stumbles off, the one who stabbed him gets away mortally wounded, dying at a hospital. NYPD Lt. Frank Ochoa  investigates the vigilante killings. His department narrows a list to men who have had a family member recently killed by muggers and who are war veterans. The public, meanwhile, is happy that somebody is doing something about crime. Ochoa soon suspects Paul. He is about to make an arrest when the District Attorney  intervenes and tells Ochoa to "let him loose" in another city instead. Ochoa doesn't like the idea, but relents. Paul shoots two more muggers before being wounded by a third mugger with a M1911A1 pistol at a warehouse. Hospitalized, he is ordered by Ochoa to leave New York, permanently. Paul replies, "By sundown?" Paul arrives in Chicago Union Station by train. Being greeted by a company representative, he notices a group of hoodlums harassing a young woman. He excuses himself and helps the woman. The hoodlums make obscene gestures, but Paul points his right hand like a gun and smiles, suggesting that his vigilantism will continue.The story opens on V-J Day in 1945. A massive celebration in a New York City nightclub is underway, music provided by the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra. While there Jimmy Doyle , a selfish and smooth-talking saxophone player, meets Francine Evans , a small-time singer. Francine is lonely but still, she wants nothing to do with Jimmy, who keeps pestering her for her phone number. The next morning, they end up sharing a cab, and, against her will, Francine accompanies Jimmy to an audition. There he gets into an argument with the club owner. Francine, to get the audition back on track, begins to sing the old standard, "You Brought a New Kind of Love to Me"; Jimmy joins in on his sax. The club owner is impressed and, to Francine's astonishment, they are both offered a job — a boy-girl act. From that moment on, Jimmy and Francine's relationship deepens into love. But there are problems—mainly, Jimmy's tendency to fight with everyone, and his increasingly violent arguments with Francine, who becomes pregnant with his child. An especially bad shouting match between them results in Francine going into labor. Jimmy rushes her to the hospital, but he is not ready to be a father, or a good husband, and he abandons his wife. Several years later, in a recording studio, Francine records "But the World Goes Round," a powerful anthem which makes the charts and turns her into a popular entertainment figure. In the following years, Jimmy and Francine both find success in the music industry. Doyle becomes a renowned jazz musician and club owner, while Francine becomes a successful singer and motion picture actress. Jimmy records a song of his on his saxophone which tops the charts, and Francine cements her stardom after singing Jimmy's song, "New York, New York". Her performance, received by a wildly appreciative audience, takes place in the same nightclub where, years earlier, she and Jimmy had met. After the show, Jimmy telephones his ex-wife, suggesting they get together for dinner. Francine is tempted, heads toward the stage door exit, but at the last moment changes her mind. Jimmy, waiting on the sidewalk, realizes he has been stood up and heads off down the street, accompanied by the song he has written — the "Theme From New York, New York". An alternate ending sees the pair reunite and walk off to dinner, sharing conversation about their son.{{Expand section}} A beautiful but frustrated housewife begins an affair with a former childhood friend. When her suspicious husband starts to show signs of jealousy, the adulterous couple plot to murder him.Simon Sparrow, now a senior doctor at St Swithins, falls in love with Delia, a model and aspiring actress. They eventually move in together, but then she goes to Italy to try out for a film. Meanwhile, Spratt injures his back in a fall. Placed under the care of physiotherapist Iris Marchant, he is initially hostile, but soon succumbs to her charms. He turns to his friend Simon for advice. Simon sends him to a nature cure clinic in a vain attempt to help him lose weight. Spratt has Iris followed, and, when his private investigator turns up at St Swithins as a patient, follows her himself . He proposes to her, but is eventually rejected in favour of another of her patients, retired army Major Tommy French. Delia returns in England, having somehow acquired an expensive Italian car  and expensive clothes, though she did not land a part in the film. It is implied that she and Simon get together again.Ivy Templeton  is a nearly eleven year old girl, living with her parents, Janice and Bill Templeton (Marsha Mason and [[John Beck , in New York. The parents notice a stranger stalking them over the course of a few weeks, and discover, over lunch with him, that his name is Elliot Hoover , and that he is convinced their daughter is a reincarnation of his daughter Audrey Rose, who died in a fiery car accident, along with his wife, two minutes before Ivy was born. Hoover had come to believe this through information given to him by two clairvoyant psychics. Bill asks a friend of his, an attorney, to hide in their apartment to hear Hoovers full story to build a case against him, but when Hoover speaks Audrey's name out loud, Ivy hears him from her room and enters an altered state where she cannot be calmed down without the assistance of Hoover. In this state, she bangs her hands on a window and becomes burned, which Hoover says is a result of his daughter's experience of being burned alive in the car. Janice is afraid of Hoover but is also concerned for her daughter, while Bill is hostile to Hoover and demands he stay away. Ivy continues to be disturbed by nightmares which keep getting worse. Hoover appears at their home during one of her nightmares, and at the request of the mother Hoover is able to calm Ivy down by calling to her as Audrey Rose, but is arrested for allegedly briefly abducting her to his recently rented upstairs apartment. The film then moves forward some months to an ongoing trial, where Hoover is attempting to persuade a jury that his actions were necessary to grant his daughter's spirit peace. The trial has become a worldwide phenomenon, with a Hindu holy man giving an explanation of reincarnation as testimony. Hoover testifies in court that after his daughter's death, Hoover had traveled to India and become a believer in reincarnation and Hinduism. Janice comes to believe Hoover's story, and testifies as much, but Bill does not, and has their lawyer request Ivy be hypnotized to show she is not a reincarnation of Audrey Rose. During the hypnosis, Ivy revisits the traumatic car crash as Audrey Rose and dies during the relived trauma. The last scene is Janice writing a letter to Hoover thanking him for transporting Ivy/Audrey's ashes to India, and indicating this is with her husband's permission, who she says has started to accept what she and Hoover believe to be true. The movie closes on a quotation from the Bhagavad-Gita:  "There is no end. For the soul there is never birth nor death. Nor, having once been, does it ever cease to be. It is unborn, eternal, ever-existing, undying and primeval..."The story line primarily follows three American students as they feel their ways through a year of studies at The Institute in Paris: Laura , who ostensibly narrates the goings-on of the film with the postcards she sends to her boyfriend back home; Alex , whose interests aren't so much in studying but with love and life in Paris; and Joel , who can't quite seem to live with the courage of his convictions. Alex becomes ensnared in a tryst with his instructor (and the Institute's co-director Madam Tessier , while Joel falls in love with a local bookstore employee, Toni .Nina is a 12-year-old girl who finds it hard to adjust to her parents' divorce. When her father marries another woman, she immediately dislikes her new stepmother. Her new mother happens to be the math teacher at her school and Nina is determined to drive her away by making up rumours about her at school.Peggy Gravel , a neurotic, delusional, suburban housewife, and her overweight maid, Grizelda Brown , go on the lam after Grizelda smothers Peggy's husband, Bosley , to death. The two are arrested by a cross-dressing policeman  who gives them an ultimatum: go to jail or be exiled to Mortville, a filthy shantytown ruled by the evil Queen Carlotta  and her treasonous daughter, Princess Coo-Coo . Peggy and Grizelda choose Mortville, but still engage in lesbian prison sex. They become associates of self-hating lesbian wrestler Mole McHenry , who wants a sex change to please her lover, Muffy St. Jacques . Most of Mortville's social outcasts—criminals, nudists, and sexual deviants—conspire to overthrow Queen Carlotta, who banishes her daughter, Coo-Coo, after she elopes with a garbage collector , who is later shot to death by the guards. Coo-Coo hides in Peggy and Grizelda's house with her dead lover. When Peggy betrays Coo-Coo to the Queen's guards, Grizelda fights them, and dies when the house collapses on her. Peggy, however, joins the queen in terrorizing her subjects, even infecting them  with rabies. Eventually, Mortville's denizens, led by Mole, overthrow Queen Carlotta and execute Peggy by shooting a gun up her anus. To celebrate their freedom, the townsfolk roast Carlotta on a spit and serve her, pig-like, on a platter with an apple in her mouth.Alcoholic Cleveland housewife Cassie Barrett is institutionalized in a psychiatric ward after experiencing a nervous breakdown in the supermarket. We learn this is the latest in a series of hospitalizations from which Cassie emerges supposedly in control of her life but actually still teetering on the edge. During this latest stay, she develops a romantic crush on psychiatrist Edwin Alexander and a close relationship with night supervisor Tinkerbell, both of whom help her take steps toward facing her inner demons and learning to live with sobriety.Nurse "Coffy" Coffin , seeks revenge for her younger sister getting hooked on drugs and has to live in a rehabilitation home, a product of the drug underworld, mob bosses and chain of violence that exists in her city. The film opens with Coffy showing her vigilante nature by killing a drug supplier and dealer. She does this without getting caught by using her sexuality as an attractive and athletic African American woman willing to do anything for a drug fix. She lures the men to their residences, which gives her the privacy to kill them both. After the killings, Coffy returns to her regular job at a local hospital operating room, but is asked to leave when she is too jumpy when handing tools to the surgeon. The film introduces Coffy’s African American police friend Carter , who used to date Coffy in their younger years. Carter is portrayed as a straight-shooting officer who is not willing to bend the law for the mob or thugs who have been bribing many officers at his precinct. Coffy doesn't believe his strong moral resolve until two hooded men break into Carter's house while she's there and beat Carter severely. It is later discovered that Carter will be lucky to walk again. This enrages Coffy, giving her further validation to continue her work as a vigilante, killing those responsible for harming Carter and her sister. Coffy's boyfriend Howard Brunswick  is a city councillor who appears to be deeply in love with Coffy at the beginning of the film. Coffy admires Brunswick for his body as well as his use of law to solve societal problems. She is very happy when he announces his plan to run for Congress, and his purchase of a night club. The two share a passionate love scene in the first part of the film that helps build the viewer's image of Coffy's sensual and stereotypical feminine side, while still portraying her in the rest of the film as a hardcore crime fighter. Coffy's next targets are a pimp named King George , who is supposedly one of the largest providers of prostitutes and illegal substances in the city, and Mafia boss Arturo Vitroni . Coffy questions and abuses a former patient of hers who was a known drug user to gain insight into the type of woman King George likes and where he keeps his stash of drugs. This is the first scene where Coffy brutalizes another woman and shows no remorse because the former patient is using drugs again and thus a societal deviant. Coffy quickly goes to a resort posing as a Jamaican woman looking to work for King George. George is quickly interested in her exotic nature and asks her to come with him back to his house to experience Coffy himself first. One of the prostitutes returns from a far away job and gets disgruntled and jealous when seeing George taking such a liking to Coffy. At a party later that day Coffy and the other prostitutes get into a massive brawl, which entices mob boss Vitroni and he demands that he have her tonight. Coffy prepares herself to murder Vitroni and just when she is about to shoot, is overtaken by his men. She lies and tells Vitroni that King George ordered her to kill him, which makes Vitroni order George to be murdered. Vitroni's men kill George by dragging him through the streets by a noose. Coffy then discovers her clean-cut boyfriend is actually corrupt when she's shown to him at a meeting of the mob and several police officials. He denies knowing her other than as a prostitute and Coffy is sent to her death. Once again, Coffy uses her sexuality to seduce her would-be killers. They try injecting her with drugs to sedate her, but she had switched these out for sugar earlier. Faking a high, she kills her unsuspecting hitmen with a piece of glass. Running to avoid capture, Coffy car-jacks a vehicle to escape. Coffy drives to Vitroni's house, murders him, and then goes to Brunswick's to do the same. He pleads forgiveness and just as she is about to accept, a naked white woman comes out of the bedroom. At this, Coffy shoots Brunswick in the groin. The film then closes with Coffy being satisfied at having avenged her sister and Carter.Jill Johnson  is babysitting the children of a doctor at their home. When the children are asleep, Jill receives a telephone call from a man who asks her if she has checked the children. At first, Jill dismisses the telephone calls as a practical joke; however, as the calls become more frequent and threatening, Jill becomes frightened and telephones the police, who promise that they would trace the call if Jill would keep him on the telephone line long enough. Jill, frightened to extreme measures, arms herself as she receives one final telephone call from the nefarious caller. Soon after her conversation with him, Jill receives a call from the police, only to find out that the stalker is calling from inside the house. The suspense of this part of the movie climaxes when a light turns on at the top of the staircase, which allows Jill to see the shadow of the stalker. Jill immediately runs to the front door to scream for help. Officer John Clifford  is then shown at the police investigation. At this point, the viewer learns that the children had been murdered by the perp several hours earlier. Also, the murderer is identified; he is an English merchant seaman named Curt Duncan , and is subsequently sent to an asylum. Seven years later, Duncan escapes from the asylum, still psychopathic. Dr. Mandrakis hires ex-cop Clifford, now a private investigator, to find Duncan. Still not knowing Clifford is after him, Duncan is now a homeless, vagrant loner. He gets into a fight and is beaten after disturbing a middle-aged woman, Tracy , in a tavern, and later follows her to her apartment. Feeling sorry for his disastrous appearance and for the fact that his attempts at a conversation with her started the fight in the first place, Tracy makes light conversation with him. While they are in the doorway talking, Tracy's phone rings forcing her to excuse herself so she can go answer it. While she is on the phone, Duncan lets himself into her apartment. Tracy doesn't tell him to leave her place right away nor explicitly rebuffs his awkward proposal to visit her for coffee the next night, assuming or hoping it will be the last of him she will see. Meanwhile an increasingly obsessed and vindictive Clifford, having confided to a former partner  that his intention is to kill Duncan rather than arrest him, follows Duncan's trail right to the tavern where the fight took place, and from there to Tracy's residence—- precisely the same night in which Duncan is likely to arrive for his visit. Clifford goes there and tells her just how dangerous her situation has become. He also tells her that Duncan literally tore and hacked up Mandrakis' children with his bare hands, rendering them virtually unrecognizable, which explains why he was found smeared with blood by the police; this, along with some eerie flashbacks experienced by Duncan later in the movie, is one of the few moments where the carnage at the Mandrakis household is described. Upon hearing this, Tracy reluctantly accepts to be Clifford's bait at the tavern that evening, although Duncan doesn't arrive and she finally decides to return home. Clifford then leaves Tracy's place; Duncan, who was hiding in Tracy's closet, pushes her to the wall and briefly muffles her cries for help. When he frees her, her horrified shrieks alert Clifford, force the intruder to flee the scene and mark the start of a cat-and-mouse chase through the streets of downtown Los Angeles, during which Clifford is outrun during at least two occasions and finally loses Duncan's track. Jill Johnson is now an adult, married with two young children. One night, Jill and her husband Stephen go out to dinner in celebration of a promotion. A friend named Sharon babysits her children. She references that she saw Jill in the newspaper. Curt Duncan happens to find the same newspaper in the city, and begins to look for Jill once again. While the couple is out, Jill gets a telephone call at the restaurant. She answers, and gets another "Have you checked the children...?" Jill panics and calls Sharon. She says nothing is wrong. The police arrive and escort Jill back home. John Clifford tries to telephone Jill, but gets no signal. Jill and Stephen sleep. Later, Jill goes down for a glass of milk, when the lights go out. She goes back upstairs and gets in bed once again. The closet door opens a little, and she hears the voice of Curt Duncan. She tries to awaken Stephen, who turns around, revealing that Curt is actually in the bed. He rips Jill's nightgown and chases her around the room. Clifford arrives, and kills Curt, shooting him twice. Stephen is revealed to be in the closet, alive but seemingly unconscious. As Clifford comforts Jill, the last view is of the house, in view of the frightening eyes of Curt Duncan.After discovering that his highschool sweetheart, whom he thought dead, is in fact alive and engaged to another man, the protagonist attempts to meet her. The girl's family reject him and the girl treats him coldly, causing the boy to leave. He later discovers her true feelings through a letter.<ref namehttp://www.kmdb.or.kr/eng/md_basic.asp?nation03055|title2009-07-15|publisher=Korean Movie Database  }}Annabel Andrews  and her mother, Ellen Andrews (Barbara Harris  constantly quarrel. Following a disagreement on Friday the 13th, Annabel leaves to join a friend at a local diner. In sync, Annabel and her mother  both wish aloud, "I wish I could switch places with her for just one day." The mother and daughter's wish comes true when they switch bodies and, subsequently, lives. Annabel and Ellen continue to live their everyday lives as each other. Annabel remains at home, tending to laundry, car repair, grocery deliveries, carpet cleaners, dry cleaners, her housemaid, and the family Basset Hound. As though Annabel did not have her hands full, Mr. Andrews coerces her to cook dinner for twenty-five as his catered dinner party plans fell through. Annabel enlists the neighbor boy to assist her, but manages to destroy every course in the making. Ellen attends school as Annabel where she struggles with marching band, destroys her entire typing class's electric typewriters, exposes her photography class's developing film, and leads the school's field hockey team to a loss. In an effort to escape school, Ellen  runs to her husband's office. There, she encounters Bill Andrew's  new attractive, young, and immodestly dressed secretary. Ellen attempts to intimidate the young woman by sharing how frightening "her mother" is. This effort appeared successful as the secretary adopts more modest clothing, glasses, and an unflattering hairstyle. Ellen  asks Mr. Andrews for access to his credit card in order to make herself over as her braces were scheduled to be removed that afternoon. As the day ends in a comical twist, the mother-daughter pair wish a new request: To return to themselves. With a new understanding of each other's lives, they forgive each other. Following the events of Freaky Friday, Father Bill and son Ben discuss how fun a Saturday in each other's place would be. As they wish to switch places, Ellen nervously throws her cards into the air.A young girl with telekinetic powers is the focus of a battle between good and evil. Katy Collins  is no ordinary 8 year-old girl. Indeed, she is unique, carrying within her the power of Sateen, an inter-spacial force of immense magnitude. Katy's primary mission on earth is to carry these genes forward, a task accomplished by convincing her mother, Barbara  to bear a similarly endowed male child with whom Katy would eventually mate.Deirdre McCluskey is a Manhattan-based fashion model who has completed an assignment for Vogue with her lover, photographer Ron Kesselman, and magazine editor Barbara Newman in Marrakech. Ron has announced plans to explore the Sahara Desert in lieu of returning home to his and Deidre's out-of-wedlock son Marcus, leaving her and Barbara to journey to Casablanca by train without him the following morning. Deidre, aware her love for Ron has died, recognizes fellow passenger Evan Bonner from a cafe where she had eaten the previous day. She approaches his compartment to ask if he has any kief he'd be willing to share with her. Seeing him alone and in tears, she returns to Barbara. When the train breaks down, Evan and Deidre explore a nearby Arab village while waiting for it to be repaired. Deirdre is attracted to Evan but he withdraws from her advances. On board a flight from Casablanca to Paris, he confesses he fled from combat in Vietnam, was brought to Moscow by a pro-peace group, and lived in Sweden and Morocco until, weary of his nomad existence, he decided to surrender and face court martial and a prison term. Deirdre spends a day and night with Evan in Paris before they return to the United States. The following morning, she proposes they remain in Europe, supported by her salary, but he declines. They fly to New York City, where the two are welcomed at Deirdre's townhouse by her mother and son. Deirdre repeats her offer, but Evan is determined to put his past behind him, and later that day he surrenders to the authorities.Brooks Wilson  is a busy man, juggling his work as a commercial artist with a marriage to Selma  and two young children. He also has a girlfriend on the side named Grace  who wants him to commit to her, but he cannot do this. Brooks is trying very hard to land an elusive account from Lepridon , but this is seeming harder to achieve than he thought. One evening they attend a party at a grand Connecticut home. Feeling his life is falling apart, Brooks seduces flirty Nelly , wife of his associate Will ([[David Doyle . They go to a children's playhouse outside the main house, and their indiscretions are caught on closed-circuit television. Selma and Will are devastated. Brooks and Will fall into a fist-fight. After the commotion dies down, the harried Brooks tells Selma that he finally landed the Lepridon account. She smacks him with her handbag, and they stare at each other in silence, seeing their marriage honestly for the first time.The young Lillian and the young Julia, daughter of a wealthy family being brought up by her grandparents in the U.S., enjoy a childhood together and an extremely close relationship in late adolescence. Later, while medical-student/physician Julia  attends Oxford and the University of Vienna and studies with such luminaries as Sigmund Freud, Lillian  suffers through revisions of her play with her mentor and sometime lover, famed author Dashiell Hammett  at a beachhouse. After becoming a celebrated playwright, Lillian is invited to a writers' conference in Russia. Julia, having taken on the battle against Nazism, enlists Lillian en route to smuggle money through Nazi Germany which will assist in the anti-Nazi cause. It is a dangerous mission, especially for a Jewish intellectual on her way to Russia. During a brief meeting with Julia on this trip, Lillian learns that her friend has a child named Lily, living with a baker in Alsace. Shortly after her return to the United States, Lillian is informed of Julia's murder. The details of her death are shrouded in secrecy. Lillian unsuccessfully looks for Julia's daughter in Alsace and also discovers that Julia's family wants nothing to do with the child, if she exists. They even pretend not to remember Lillian, clearly wanting to excise the embarrassment of Julia from their lives.:By What Means Redmond Barry Acquired the Style and Title of Barry Lyndon An omniscient  narrator  informs us that in 1750s Ireland, the father of Redmond Barry  is killed in a duel over a disputed horse sale. The widow , disdaining offers of marriage, devotes herself to her only son. As a teenager, Barry falls in love with his older cousin, Nora Brady . Though she seduces him, she later drops Barry  for the well-off English Captain John Quin . Nora and her family plan to relieve their poverty with an advantageous marriage, but Barry refuses to accept the situation and shoots Quin in a duel. Barry flees to Dublin, but en route is robbed of purse and equipment by Captain Feeney , a famous highwayman. Broke, Barry joins the British army, whereupon he reunites with Captain Grogan , a family friend, who informs him that, in fact, he did not kill Quin — Barry's dueling pistol was loaded with tow. The duel was staged by Nora's family to get rid of Barry so that their family finances would be secured through the marriage of Nora and Quin. Barry's regiment is sent to France to fight in the Seven Years' War, where Captain Grogan is fatally wounded by the French at the Battle of Minden. Barry deserts the army, stealing an officer courier's uniform, horse, and identification papers. En route to neutral Holland he encounters the Prussian Captain Potzdorf , who, seeing through his disguise, offers him the choice of being turned back over to the British where he will be shot as a deserter, or enlisting in the Prussian army. Barry enlists in his second army and later receives a special commendation from Frederick the Great for saving Potzdorf's life in a battle. After the war ends in 1763, Barry is employed by Captain Potzdorf's uncle in the Prussian Ministry of Police to become the servant of the Chevalier de Balibari ([[Patrick Magee , a professional gambler. The Prussians suspect he is a spy and send Barry as an undercover agent to verify this. Barry reveals himself to the Chevalier right away and they become confederates cheating at cards. After he and the Chevalier cheat the Prince of Tübingen at the cardtable, the Prince accuses the Chevalier  and refuses to pay his debt unless the Chevalier demands satisfaction. When Barry relays this to his Prussian handlers, they  are wary of allowing another meeting between the Chevalier and the Prince. So, the Prussians arrange for the Chevalier to be expelled from the country. Barry conveys this plan to the Chevalier, who flees in the night. The next morning, Barry, under disguise as the Chevalier, is escorted from Prussian territory by Prussian officers. For the next few years, Barry and the Chevalier travel the spas and parlors of Europe, profiting from their gambling with Barry enforcing reluctant debtors with a duel. Seeing that his life is going nowhere, Barry decides to marry into wealth. At a gambling table in Belgium, he encounters the beautiful and wealthy Countess of Lyndon . He seduces and later marries her after the death of her elderly husband, Sir Charles Lyndon . <div styleAct IIEpilogue :It was in the reign of King George III that the aforesaid personages lived and quarreled; good or bad, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, they are all equal nowMilo Tindle , a prosperous, rather flashy self-made London hairdresser, the son of immigrants, arrives at a large stately home in the Wiltshire countryside, belonging to Andrew Wyke , a pompous, highly eccentric crime fiction author. A member of the upper class and with a great concern for tradition, Wyke is popular worldwide for his aristocratic detective, St. John Lord Meridew. Andrew quickly tells Milo that he knows that Milo is having an affair with his wife, Margeurite. Milo, in return, tells Andrew that he knows Andrew is having an affair with a Swedish prostitute called Thea, and that Andrew’s wife will raise a divorce action based on this. Andrew proposes that Milo steals his jewels. This way, Milo will be able to sell the jewels for £170,000 cash, enabling him to maintain Margeurite’s very expensive tastes, while Andrew will be able to claim the insurance money. To make the burglary seem convincing, Andrew suggests that Milo actually burgle his house. This Milo proceeds to do, instructed by Andrew at every step of the way. Frequently, Andrew’s fondness for playing games exasperates Milo, who wants Andrew to be more serious about the plot. Andrew is riled by Milo’s attitudes and makes disparaging remarks about his being of Italian descent. However, it appears that they also like each other in some way and that Milo is enjoying playing Andrew’s “game”. When the time comes for Milo and Andrew to stage a fight, Andrew pulls his gun and creates some bullet holes. Then, Milo is supposed to tie Andrew up, to be discovered by the cleaner the next day, but instead, Andrew turns the gun on Milo. He says that he will not accept another man stealing his wife, and has merely set up the burglary so that he can kill Milo and plead self-defence, as it will look like Milo broke into his house. Milo attempts to flee, but Andrew has kept his car keys. Milo breaks down into tears and begs for his life. He takes Milo to the staircase, expresses his contempt for working-class, non-English people like Milo, and shoots him in the head. A few days later, Andrew is relaxing in his lounge, reading The Times and listening to Cole Porter songs , when the doorbell rings and Inspector Doppler of the Wiltshire Constabulary arrives. Doppler claims to be investigating the disappearance of Milo Tindle. Andrew explains that what the viewer assumes to have been the murder of Milo was just a game. Andrew tested Milo, then humiliated him by putting him in fear of his life: this, Andrew feels, showed Milo’s true character and meant that Andrew “won the game”. However, he only shot Milo with a blank bullet. Milo passed out with shock, and fled upon awakening. Doppler refuses to believe this and points out numerous bits of evidence that prove Andrew’s guilt: bullet holes in the wall, a passerby hearing shots fired, Milo’s blood on the staircase, and others. Andrew grows nervous as the various bits of evidence stack up against him. Doppler shows Andrew a mound of earth and says that if Milo is not buried under it, it can be used to prove that Andrew killed Milo, panicked, started to dig a grave in the garden, then disposed of it elsewhere- effectively closing the case. Andrew goes into hysterics, demanding the right to see a lawyer and struggling with Doppler. At the point of Andrew’s greatest humiliation, Doppler removes his face; he is in fact Milo, in an intricate disguise. Andrew did indeed not kill Milo, who has now avenged his humiliation by playing a game of his own and humiliating Andrew. Andrew congratulates Milo on his ingenuity and the two become fairly affable again. Andrew explains to Milo his philosophy of games-playing and how Milo must surely concede that life has been much more exhilarating when playing games with him. Milo expresses contempt for Andrew’s attitude and says that in his family, there was no time to play games for fun, and that he, Milo, only plays to win. Accordingly, although he has now equalised with Andrew, he seeks to actually beat him now. Milo tells Andrew that he has decided to take the game one step further by actually killing somebody. For the first time, Andrew’s air of insincerity and silliness falters and he calmly suggests that Milo leave. Milo refuses, and explains that he has killed Andrew’s mistress, Thea. Andrew calls Thea’s flat and is shocked to hear that she is missing. Milo then tells Andrew that after Andrew “killed” him the other day, he went and told the police about it, and said that Andrew had expressed an interest in committing the perfect murder. The police promised to arrive at 10pm that evening- it is now 9.45. Milo has planted several items around the house which incriminate Andrew as Thea's murderer. A frantic Andrew deciphers Milo’s clues, and among other things has to crawl through the coal box to extract one item. He destroys the final clue just as Milo goes to open the door for the police. At this point, Milo reveals that he did not in fact kill Thea, but has just played another game with Andrew, and has now beaten him twice, making him the winner. He brags that Thea was only too happy to pretend to have been abducted, and that she said he could not maintain an erection- embarrassing Andrew, who joked about his sexual prowess earlier in the film. Milo also mocks Andrew’s detective character, St. John Lord Meridew. Leaving Andrew utterly humiliated, he goes upstairs to retrieve Margeurite’s coat. While Milo is upstairs, a furious Andrew retrieves his pistol and decides to kill Milo; he will tell the police that he saw Milo walk down the stairs with Margeurite’s coat and shot him in self-defence. When Milo arrives back downstairs, Andrew informs him of his intention, but Milo says that would be foolish on Andrew’s part, as Milo really did go and see the police about the other day’s events, and they really are due at Andrew’s house soon. He turns to leave, smiling, and Andrew shoots him in the back. As he lies dying, Andrew tells him he was not going to fall for the same trick three times. Just then, a car is heard coming up the driveway, and blue lights are seen flashing. A horrified Andrew realises that Milo was telling the truth; the police really do know about the staged burglary, and he will now be convicted of murder. All the toys in Andrew’s living room go off, seemingly laughing at him, as he stands, ashen-faced, at the foot of the stairs. Milo’s last words are, “Andrew, tell them it was all just a bloody game”.{{plot}} Reverend Michael Hill  and his two children arrive in a mid-sized city as the new minister at North Avenue Presbyterian Church. The secretary/music director for the church, Anne , is wary of the changes Hill intends to implement. Hill wants to get people involved, and asks Mrs. Rose Rafferty  to handle the church's sinking fund. On his first Sunday, Hill learns from Mrs. Rafferty that her husband Delaney  bet all the sinking fund money on a horse race. Hill delivers a sermon less than 15 seconds long, then rapidly escorts Mrs. Rafferty out the church as astonished worshipers watch. She leads him to the bookie, hidden behind a dry-cleaning shop, and meets Harry the Hat , who recommends that Hill let the bet ride. Hill's horse loses and he is thrown out of the betting parlor. Hill summons the police, but the booking joint has been skillfully removed. That evening, Hill delivers a tirade against the organized crime in the city during a local television broadcast. He is chastised by his presbytery superiors for the tirade, and is urged to go out and build church membership in the area. His only success is with a rock band called Strawberry Shortcake, who he recruits to "jazz up" the music at church; Anne resigns as music director. Then, two treasury agents for the US government arrive: Marvin Fogleman  and Tom Voohries . They want Hill to help them close down the gambling racket by recruiting some men from the church to place bets that the agents will watch. Hill cannot find any men to help, but hits upon the idea of using women. Five women from his congregation  attempt to place bets in the company of the Treasury agents, but with disastrous clumsiness. The team changes tactics to try to go after the "bank" that the gangsters use, tailing the mob's deliverymen through town while Hill coordinates using a map at the church office. Two gangsters subsequently appear at the church during services and identify the women. Anne discovers the operation, even as Hill defends the Irregulars as keeping the gangsters off balance. Anne resigns from the secretary position, and soon after, the gangsters bomb the church. Hill is shocked at the gangsters' act, and seems ready to give in, but to his surprise, Anne wants to join the fight. They do so, and continue to hammer the gangsters' movements around town. Meanwhile, Hill receives word that the pulpit has been declared vacant and North Avenue will be discontinued as a church entity. Dr. Victor Fulton , a representative from presbytery, arrives to discuss the closure with Hill. Anne picks up two more presbytery representatives at the airport, but while bringing them to the church, she recognizes one of the mob's deliverymen and realizes she may be able to find the bank. She tracks the deliveryman to an isolated compound. Within minutes, all the Irregulars besiege the place as the gangsters attempt a frantic escape with their bank. A demolition derby ensues, the crooks are stopped, and the evidence is seized. The following Sunday, Hill's congregation gathers outside the gutted church while he delivers news of the indictments against the mob and of the closing of the church. However, Dr. Fulton steps in to proclaim that North Avenue has a new lease on life—it will be rebuilt. The youthful band starts the music again as everyone rejoices.{{plot}} It is the 1970s; Fritz the Cat is now married, on welfare, and has a child named Ralphie, who casually masturbates. As his wife screams at him for being an irresponsible father and husband, Fritz sits on the couch, staring off into space, smoking a joint. Tired of listening to his wife nag at him, he fades off into his own little world, imagining what life would be like for him if things were different. The first character he meets on his stoned journey is Juan, a Puerto Rican. The two talk about Juan's sister Chita. The scene fades to Juan's house where Fritz is seen sitting on the couch smoking a joint next to Chita, while Juan is at the store. Chita complains to Fritz when he blows smoke in her eyes. His reaction is to tell her to loosen up and "embrace her fellow man", then he suddenly shoves a joint into her mouth, taking her off into her own hallucinogenic fantasy. The pot makes her horny. Meanwhile, outside, a pair of crows are about to rob the place, but decide to stay outside and watch what happens inside instead. A car pulls up and out comes Chita's father, who sees Fritz and Chita having sex, and blows Fritz apart with a shotgun. This violent display turns off the two crows, who decide to come back at another time. In his second life, Fritz meets a drunken bum claiming to be God. In his third life, Fritz imagines that he is a soldier in World War II-era Nazi Germany. After being caught having a ménage à trois with two German girls by a commanding officer , Fritz escapes, and winds up being an orderly to Adolf Hitler. Fritz takes the form of a therapist, and analyzes Hitler, telling him that his world domination plans were just a way of trying to get attention. In the showers, Hitler "accidentally" drops his soap, and urges Fritz to pick it up, in an attempt to rape him, and ends up getting his single testicle blown off. In this segment, Fritz meets his death by way of the US Army. The film cuts back to 1970s-era New York in Fritz's fourth life, as Fritz attempts to sell a used condom to a liquor store owner, Niki, who bets he knows who Fritz used it on. The two break out laughing as they take turns describing the woman. Fritz at one point blurts out that the woman has got the clap. When Niki asks who her name is, Fritz responds by telling him "Gina". Niki says that that's his wife's name and that she doesn't have the clap. Fritz tells him "she does now," causing Niki to curse and shout at Fritz. As he walks out of the store, Fritz bumps into a pig named Lenny. Fritz tells him that he was an irresistible stud in the 1930s. Fritz's fifth life is a psychedelic montage of old stock film and animation, vaguely illustrating Fritz's downfall in the 1930s . In his sixth life, Fritz shows up at a pawn shop run by a Jewish crow named Morris, and tries to get a welfare check cashed. Fritz tries to make a deal with Morris: If Morris will cash Fritz's welfare check, then Fritz will give Morris a toilet seat. Morris doesn't like the deal, but suddenly getting diarrhoea from the pickles he has been eating, he reluctantly accepts the deal, but instead of cashing Fritz's welfare check, he gives Fritz a space helmet. We then see Fritz in his seventh life, as NASA hires Fritz to go into space on the first mission to Mars. While waiting for the shuttle to take off, Fritz decides to have sex with one of the reporters, a black girl. However, the space shuttle takes off a little early, and, once in space, it explodes. In Fritz's next life, the film portrays Fritz talking to the ghost of his black crow friend Duke, who was shot to death in the previous film. The film then flash-forwards to a future where New Jersey is a separate country from the rest of the United States, and has been renamed "New Africa", home to all black crows. Fritz is just starting his job as a courier, and he is asked by President Henry Kissinger to deliver a letter to the president of New Africa. In New Africa, Fritz finds a high crime rate, corruption, and violence. Once Fritz is led to "The Black House", he hears the president of New Africa and his vice-president talking about how low his popularity is, and how an assassination attempt would boost his popularity. The president refuses to get shot, but is shot anyway, because the vice president needs his president's popularity to increase so he will not lose the upcoming election. The vice-president blames the assassination on Fritz, because he is the only "white" cat in New Africa. Because of this, America and "New Africa" are at war, and Kissinger eventually admits an unconditional surrender. In the end, Fritz is shot for the crime he did not commit. In his final life, Fritz finds himself living in the sewers of New York, where he meets an Indian guru, and the devil. However, Fritz is given a rude awakening from his drug-induced reality by his wife, who finally throws him out of the apartment. After a quick look at all of his lives, Fritz sighs and says "This is about the worst life I've ever had."A group of prostitutes are brought in to a New York police station. In a series of flashbacks, the story starts with Dutch secretary of the year Xaviera Hollander  moves to New York City in hopes of marrying her fiancé Carl , whom she met whilst visiting her sister in South Africa. From the minute she exits the airplane and he does not help her take her bags to his increasingly long morning routine getting ready and primping, Xaviera starts to become more concerned that he is not the man she thought he was on holiday. Her suspicions are confirmed when he does not tell his mother and she unwittingly tells her, which follows with his mother insulting her over dinner. Xaviera offers him a choice of her or his mother and he picks his mother. After leaving Carl, Xaviera finds work at the Dutch Embassy as a translator and secretary. She is asked by Frenchman Yves  out on a spur of the moment date and she accepts. She quickly falls in love with him and his extravagant lifestyle as he has made a small fortune by acting as an expert consultant for large corporations and even small countries. He announces that he must leave as he has been summoned by the king of a middle eastern country and she breaks down crying. He hands her a large envelope containing cash. Although it makes her feel like a prostitute, she realizes quickly that this may be her calling in life as she loves sex and money, and starts meeting up with Yves' friends who he gave her number to. Xaviera starts to do well as a prostitute until she is shaken down by a corrupt cop ([[Richard Lynch  who takes her money and tries to rape her. Instead of paying him off and continuing long term, she decides to work at a local bordello with a madam who offers her a 50/50 split. The work is great for her, but she decides that she can do better on her own, so leaves to open her own bordello ten blocks away. After a while, she is the most successful madam in New York City and buys out her former madame's business as well. The former madame decides to sell after becoming pregnant with her longtime boyfriend Fred Conrad Janis. Everything is going great except for the amount of work until the police officer that offered her protection earlier sees her and instigates a raid, sending her to prison. Her attorney bails her out of jail and sets her up with a friend of his who is coming in from Montreal.Set in both Sicily and mainland Italy, the film follows the adventures of a man nicknamed Mimi, who is asked to rig a local election. Instead, he votes for a Communist representative. To get away from the Mafia, he leaves his wife and falls for and lives with a female political activist. Soon, other situations happen that leave Mimi questioning the life he has and what he will do next. The screenplay was adapted, very loosely, for the 1977 film Which Way Is Up? starring Richard Pryor.Dr. Françoise Gailland has a hectic schedule, which causes her to have little time to spend with her family, which consists of her husband Gérard, her pregnant teenaged daughter Elisabeth, and her sullen son Julien. However, she does manage to find the time to spend with her lover, Daniel Letessier. While her life in such disarray, she learns that she has cancer. Françoise tries to put a brave face on it, and is determined to face the life-threatening disease with courage.The pair meet at a Hollywood party, where rugged leading man Gable eschews evening wear and screwball comedienne Lombard arrives in an ambulance that wrecks his car. They argue. He threatens to spank her. She punches him on the jaw. The two clearly dislike each other, and intensely so, but as fate conspires to bring them together again and again, they begin to admire each other and fall in love. The fly in the ointment is Gable's second wife Ria. MGM executive Louis B. Mayer fears any publicity about his affair with Lombard will jeopardize Gable's career, and since he's the studio's most valuable player, Mayer becomes protective of his star. Gable and Lombard fish, play practical jokes on each other, laugh, fight, and have fun making up. His wife finally grants him a divorce, and the two wed. The happily ever after ending is thwarted when Lombard is killed in a plane crash while promoting the purchase of defense bonds during World War II.At the suggestion of their teacher, fourth grade schoolchildren in imaginary "Jabukovac, near Veliko Selo", create an association and organize a field trip to the nearby town. There, they eat chocolate in a chocolate factory and spend the evening at a movie theater. As they are supposed to return to their village, their teacher gets ill and must stay in a hospital. The children travel back alone, and the train gets blocked by a snowdrift. With the help of the children, the railroad workers manage to clear the way.Milton Parker , an elderly and eccentric game inventor, dies in the opening scene after losing a video game with his seductive nurse . The Sunday morning following his death and funeral, all of his greedy and estranged relatives show up at his mansion for the reading of his will where his lawyer Charles Bernstein  stipulates in his will that the winner of an elaborate scavenger hunt will inherit his $200 million estate. The various  beneficiaries form five teams and each team gets involved in various misadventures along the way. The five teams consist of... # Parker's son-in-law Henry Motley  and his four ill-behaved children. # The servants; French cook Henri , manservant Jenkins , limo driver Jackson , and dull-witted French maid Babbette . # Dim-witted taxi driver Marvin Dummittz . # Parker's greedy widowed sister Mildred Carruthers , her greedy attorney Stewart Sellsome , and her spoiled, man-child son Georgie . # Nephews Kenny  & Jeff Stevens , and Lisa, Carruthers' step-daughter . The five groups are given five lists containing simple and easy clues to acquire 100 items with various point values ranging from five to 100 points. The items are to be acquired by any means necessary, with the exception of purchase, and placed in five different pens on the grounds of the estate. The winner of the scavenger hunt will be the person or team that acquires the most points, by 5:00 p.m. that very day. What follows is a series of misadventures as each of the five groups attempts to acquire the various items, as well as returning occasionally to the Parker mansion to deposit items in the team pen under the supervision of Bernstein and the scorekeeper Mr. Cornfeld. Mildred, Stewart and Georgie's adventure has them trying to win a stuffed toy bear at a local carnival, trying to haul a heavy safe out of Stewart's office building, stealing the false teeth of a local Native American  as well as resorting to stealing other people's items. Stewart also gets roughed up by a group of motorcycle gang members, led by a burly guy named Scum  after attempting to steal a stuffed fox tail from one of the bikers' motorcycles. The servants' adventure has them trying to steal a toilet from a fancy hotel, partaking in a robbery at a local convenience store to steal a cash register , and getting locked in a university laboratory to steal a microscope. Kenny, Jeff and Lisa's adventure has them "borrowing" items such as a clown head from a local Jack in the Box eatery, recruiting an obese man named Duane  as an item since the list gives 50 bonus points for the team with the heaviest person, but they soon discard him  and pick up another obese person, and borrowing a bulletproof vest from a self-defense-obsessed elderly lady named Arvila , acquiring "laughing gas", stealing a uniform from a local motorcycle cop, and getting stuck in a locker room during a major league football game after trying to steal a football helmet. Marvin Dummittz' adventure has him trying unsuccessfully to steal a Rolls Royce front grill and getting run over many times attempting to remove it. Marvin teams up with a bridal shop security guard named Sam , who catches him attempting to steal a bridal dress. Marvin tells him about the scavenger hunt and Sam agrees to help. Together they try to steal a knight's suit of armor from a local museum, with Marvin dressing up as a mummy and Sam putting the suit on. He gets knocked out and the Mildred-Stewart-Georgie team steal him. Marvin teams up with an obese friend of his named Merl  to help him. Henry Motley's adventure has him attempting to make his unruly kids proud of him by trying to acquire a beehive , a life preserver , and a parachute . Motley tries to get a medicine ball from a local gym and tries to impress the instructor Lars , which gets Motley thrown out of a second floor window after he finally attempts to catch a medicine ball thrown to him. In the meantime, each of the five teams steals an ostrich from the San Diego Zoo, much to the dismay of the bewildered zookeeper . It all leads to a climactic car chase back to the Parker mansion where the servants, Motley and kids, and Marvin all team up, giving up their individual chances to win in order to help Jeff and Kenny win the scavenger hunt. They haul all their items to the Stevens brothers' pen to allow them to win against the unethical Mildred-Stewart-Georgie team. It ends when, with seconds to go, Sam, still wearing the armored knight suit, has to crawl out of the Carruthers' pen and into the Stevens' pen to win the contest for the Stevens brothers and Lisa, who decide to share their new wealth with the rest of the participants, with the exception of the Mildred-Stewart-Georgie team.Charley Appleby is a hardware store owner whose frugality and commitment to his job have enabled his family to avoid poverty during the Great Depression and Prohibition. However, his relationship with his children and wife Nettie  is strained. They especially want to go to see the Chicago World's Fair. His growing sons Willie and Rupert  manage to find work in a junkyard owned by a man named Felix with ties to bootleggers, and his teenage daughter Leonora  decides to elope with a young man named Ray , who seems untrustworthy. Charley is visited by a shabby-looking angel  who appears visible only to him. The angel tells Charley that his time will soon be up, and the shopkeeper decides to become religious, patch relations with his family, sell his business, and do the best he can to be a good father and husband before he dies. Charley's angel appears intermittently throughout the film, occasionally helping Charley, and occasionally causing mischief. The angel reveals his name as Roy Zerney. Charley is initially unsuccessful at effecting change. His gestures are incomprehensible to his wife and children, who see his sudden change of behavior as bizarre, particularly his decision to sell the store. Charley appears ostensibly insane whenever he speaks to, or looks for, the lingering angel who is visible only to him. When Charley tries to take money from his account in the bank, he learns from the banker Ernie  that the bank will be closing for a while and may be in danger of foreclosure. He must loan money to son-in-law Ray, and to his friend Pete . Business tightens, and Charley is running out of time and money. However, Charley becomes an unlikely hero. His boys begin using a rickety Model T, unknowingly delivering illegal booze by Felix's request, and they are kidnapped and forced to drive away when the Chicago gangsters responsible for the operation are trying to flee the city. Charley personally chases them in the abandoned gangsters' car, dodging gunfire, and the police catch him presuming he is the criminal. While in prison, Roy tells Charley that today will probably be his last day on Earth. However, Charley's thoughts are still of his boys. When he returns home in the evening, Leonora and Ray return for an untimely visit just as the gangsters occupy his house and intend to take Charley's wife as another hostage. Charley defies them and defends his wife and kids with his own life. The fight ends when Charley and Ray, with the assistance of a timely appearance by Pete, succeed in defeating the gangsters and delivering them to the police. In the course of the fight, Charley was shot at point-blank range but miraculously receives no wound. For capturing the criminals, Charley receives a $5000 reward posted by Chicago's police department. Ernie appears as a representative of the town to honor Charley as a town hero and present him with a hotel reservation and tickets to the World's Fair. He also informs them that the bank examiner has approved the bank's credibility and that it will be reopening tomorrow. Pete has also returned to repay his debt. Charley, satisfied with the turn of events in his final day, says goodbye to his family and expects that he will still die, but Roy appears and reveals that the eleventh-hour decision in Heaven was to let Charley live. Roy physically intervened and pulled the bullet from the air, thus nullifying the prophecy and clarifying to Charley that he will live on, with an enriched outlook.An expedition led by British archeologist Professor Fuchs  attempts to locate the cursed tomb of an evil Egyptian princess. Her body is found to be perfectly, unnaturally preserved after two millennia. Fuchs becomes obsessed by Princess Tera's beauty and takes the body and sarcophagus back to London, building a secret shrine in his basement. Not long after, his daughter Margeret , who bears an uncanny resemblance to the princess, starts to experience strange dreams. A sinister man, who only she seems to notice, watches her from the derelict house across the road. Margaret begins to wonder if she's going mad, and starts experiencing wild personality changes. Soon the evil will of Tera, reaching up through the house, begins to periodically take over Margaret's mind and body. The strange man is revealed as Corbeck , one of the expedition members, who is working to restore Tera to life and a new reign of terror, and with his help Margaret kills the other desecrators of Tera's tomb one by one. Corbeck, Margeret and her increasingly unhinged father start the ritual to awaken the princess. Professor Fuchs finally sees sense and convinces her to stop the ritual; together they overpower and kill Corbeck. Tera awakes, and in the attempt to stop Tera, the Professor is killed. After a long struggle, Margaret stabs Tera in the heart and she dies. In the end, Magaret wakes up from unconsciousness and finds herself in the hospital. Her whole body is wrapped in bandages and she is trying to say something.Pusser, at his wife Pauline's behest, retires from the professional wrestling ring and moves back to Tennessee to start a logging business with his father, Carl Pusser. With a friend, he visits a gambling and prostitution establishment, the Lucky Spot, and is beaten up after catching them cheating at craps. Pusser is seriously injured with a knife and receives over 200 stitches. He complains to the sheriff but is ignored, and soon becomes aware of the rampant corruption in McNairy County. Pusser decides to clean up the county and runs for sheriff. Buford Pusser wins, and becomes famous for being incorruptible, intolerant of crime, and for his array of four foot hickory clubs which he uses to great effect in dispatching criminals and destroying their clandestine gambling dens and illegal distilleries. Some residents praise Buford Pusser as an honest cop in a crooked town; others denounce him as a bully willing to break some laws to uphold others. Pusser is attacked several times, and finally he and Pauline are ambushed in their car. Pauline is killed and Pusser is seriously injured. He is admitted to the hospital after being shot and while still in a neck and face cast, rams a sheriff cruiser through the front doors of the Lucky Spot, killing two of his would-be assassins. As he leaves with two deputies, the townspeople arrive and begin throwing the gambling tables out into the parking lot. They light a bonfire as an overwhelmed Pusser wipes tears from his eyes.Mike  is a stuntman who works with his girlfriend Jane . On their wedding day Mike and Jane are forced by producers to do a stunt for a film they are working on. Mike, annoyed doesn't look on the road and crashes the car causing them to end up in a hospital. After they come out Jane doesn't want to talk to Mike so he decides to get her a job in a film in which he is a stunt double for his double who is a star in action pictures but is in fact a wimp.The daughter of mild-mannered Manhattan dentist Sheldon "Shelly" Kornpett  and the son of businessman Vince Ricardo  are engaged to be married. At an introductory dinner in which Shelly meets his new in-law Vince, he finds Vince suspicious; during the dinner, Vince tells a crazy story of a nine-month "consulting" trip to 1954 Guatemala . Vince's son and wife seem oblivious. Shelly pleads with his daughter not to not marry into the Ricardo clan, since he mistrusts Vince. However, Shelly agrees to give Vince a chance. The following day Vince appears at Sheldon's office, claiming that he wanted to say hello . He then asks Shelly for help with a five-minute errand: breaking into Vince's office safe. Shelly is reluctant, but agrees. After retrieving a mysterious black bag from Vince's cramped office in an old Herald Square office building, Sheldon is surprised by two armed hit men. After a chase and shootout, Vince explains to the frightened Shelly that he has worked for the CIA since the Eisenhower administration and robbed the United States Mint of engraving plates in order to crack a world-wide inflation plot hatched in Central America. He mentions that he robbed the U.S. Mint on his own; the CIA had turned him down, deeming the caper too risky. Vince claims that Sheldon is not involved; however, if Vince is caught he will be jailed for 20 years and fired from the CIA. Vince further upsets Sheldon by mentioning that he left an engraving plate in the basement of Sheldon's house the previous night. During the wedding preparations Mrs. Kornpett discovers the engraving and brings it to her local bank, where she is informed by the U.S. Treasury Department that it was stolen. Sheldon arrives home to find Treasury officials there and speeds out of the driveway, leading to a car chase through suburban New Jersey. Sheldon calls Vince and explains what happened; Vince tells Sheldon that he wants him to accompany him to Scranton, Pennsylvania and the whole ordeal will be cleared up by the time they return. At a small airport near Lodi, New Jersey, Vince and Sheldon board a jet piloted by two Chinese pilots . To Shelly's consternation, during the flight he notices they are flying over the Atlantic Ocean . Vince assures Sheldon they are still going to Scranton, but that they need to make a brief stop along the way at a small island south of Honduras. When they arrive Vince is supposed to meet a corrupt member of the small country's legislature, General Jesus Braunschweiger. When they land, Jesus is shot and killed before he can greet and debrief the two. Vince and Sheldon fall under sniper fire and, using the General's Mercedes-Benz, escape and drive into town. At their hotel Vince contacts the mastermind of the inflation plot , General Garcia . Sheldon, tired of the ordeal, refuses to be shot at any more; unknown to Vince, he calls the United States Embassy and is told by the CIA agent-in-charge that Vince is a madman who was mentally discharged from the agency. Sheldon tells Vince what the agent told him, and tries to escape. Vince prevents him from doing so, assuring Sheldon that the embassy told him that to get Shelly off the trail. Sheldon is still reluctant. Leaving the hotel, Vince hails a taxi driven by one of the airport snipers. Sheldon chases, leaping onto the roof of the car. Vince takes control of the car, crashing into a fruit market. Grateful to Sheldon for saving him , Vince and Shelly reach the General's estate. It is obvious to Sheldon  that the general is insane; his artwork is bizarre and he has a painted face on his hand, "Senor Pepe". Garcia shows the two the room he will use for counterfeiting, gives Vince $20&nbsp;million for the plates and treats them to a banquet . For a change, it is Vince who become uneasy as Garcia stands the two in front of a firing squad . Sheldon breaks down completely; Vince stalls for time until hundreds of CIA agents  surround and attack the general's army, taking Garcia into custody. Lutz tells Sheldon that Vince was telling the truth the entire time; however, Vince tells him that he is leaving the agency because he has had enough. He gives Barry the $10&nbsp;million he had agreed to deliver from the general. Vince and Sheldon take off with five million dollars each, giving their children a wedding gift of a million dollars to each.Renowned surgeon Sir Lancelot Sprat  arranges a cruise for his patient, the famous television star Basil Beauchamp . The captain of the ship is Lancelot Spratt's brother . Doctor Burke  becomes a stowaway by mistake when chasing his girlfriend  onto the ship to propose to her. She is one of a group of models doing a fashion shoot with camp photographer . Other passengers aboard ship include pools winner Llewellyn Wendover  and Mrs. Dailey , a socially ambitious lady hoping to find a wealthy match for her daughter Dawn.  Burke is pursued by the Master-at-Arms  who, correctly suspects that he does not have a ticket. Burke tries various ruses to try to escape him, including dressing up as a doctor. Eventually he is caught and exposed as a stowaway. Captain Spratt orders him to serve as an orderly, scrubbing the ship. When the ships doctor falls ill, from a tropical disease, Burke takes over his duties. He is called into action when a Soviet cargo ship sends a request for help, as there is a patient with a severe case of appendicitis. Burke is transferred to that ship to perform the operation. By the time he has finished his own ship has departed, and he is forced to stay on board the Soviet vessel until it reaches Grimsby. By the time he goes to meet the cruise ship, as it returns home, he finds his girlfriend has got married to the ship's doctor, now recovered from his illness. Meanwhile Dawn Dailey, having failed to snare Captain Spratt, decides to marry Wendover - only to find, once they have tied the knot, that he is not quite so wealthy as she had imagined.In 1935, a lowlife mobster, Nikki Rocco, is betrayed and executed in the swampy backwoods as his pregnant gun-moll, Ruby Claire watches. He swears vengeance with his dying breath, and then she suddenly goes into labour. Sixteen years later in 1951, Ruby is now running a drive-in theatre in the backwoods near her home and employs some ex-mobsters. Her 16-year-old daughter, Leslie Claire, is mute and has been since birth. Soon strange and bizarre accidents claim the lives of Ruby's employees, then Leslie begins to show strange behaviour, and then begins to speak... in her dead father's voice. Nikki Rocco possesses his daughter's body and terrorizes Ruby with levitations, telekinesis, maniacal laughing and bizarre sexual aggression.A critically injured woman, victim of a motorcycle accident, is taken to the plastic surgery clinic of Doctor Dan Keloid, where some of her intact tissue is treated to become morphogenetically neutral. The tissue is grafted to fire-damaged areas of her body in the hope that it will differentiate and replace the damaged skin and organs. The woman's body unexpectedly accepts the transplants, developing an orifice under an armpit, within which hides a phallic stinger. She uses it to feed on the blood of other people and afterwards erasing their memories of the incident. It soon is apparent that every victim whom she infects transforms into a rabid zombie whose bite spreads the disease. This eventually causes the city to fall into chaos before the outbreak can be contained.In this teen romance, a young neglected English boy  runs away and becomes friends with a French girl  on the same flight. Together, they go to an idyllic marsh location in France , become lovers, set up housekeeping, have a baby, and play at being responsible adults, discovering along the way many of the troubles involved, before ultimately becoming separated by police responding to a missing persons report.  {{Main}} In the 1974 sequel, Paul and Michelle, the young family is reunited and has to cope with a new love interest for the girl, and the difficulties of work and college while trying to maintain a family.Set in 1958, the coming-of-age story follows four Brooklyn teenagers known as The Lords of Flatbush. The Lords chase girls, steal cars, play pool and hang out at a local malt shop. The film focuses on Chico  attempting to win over Jane , a girl who wants little to do with him, and Stanley , who impregnates his girlfriend, Frannie , who wants him to marry her.Schoolmaster Albert Müller witnesses his wife Anna taking a little girl to the castle of vampire Count Mitterhaus, where the child is killed. The villagers, led by Müller and the mayor, invade the castle and attack the Count, driving a wooden stake through his heart. With his dying breath, Mitterhaus curses the villagers, vowing that their children will die to give him back his life. The villagers force Anna to run the gauntlet, after which she runs back to the castle, where the briefly-revived Count tells her to find his cousin Emil. Meanwhile the villagers set the castle on fire. Fifteen years later, the village is ravaged by the plague and blockaded by the authorities. The citizens fear that the pestilence may be due to the Count's curse. A travelling circus, led by a dwarf and a gypsy woman, arrives in the village and the villagers appreciate the distraction from their troubles. One of the artists, Emil, is actually a vampire and Count Mitterhaus's cousin. Emil and the gypsy woman go to the castle, where they find the Count's staked body and reiterate the curse, that all who attacked on his cousin and all their children must die. During a visit to the circus, the Burgermeister has a vision of a revived Count Mitterhaus, and collapses. Frightened by this event, one villager and his family try to flee the blocked town but are devoured by the circus panther. Müller's daughter Dora discovers the dismembered bodies of the family, arousing suspicions about the animals of the circus. When the dead bodies of two village boys are found, the Burgermeister and another man begin to shoot the circus animals. After an encounter with Emil, the Burgermeister dies of heart failure, while his daughter runs off with Emil, who bites and kills the girl. Dora and Anton encounter twin vampires, but the cross Dora is wearing saves her. Later, the vampires enter the school house; Emil, in panther form, kills the students, while the gypsy  tears the cross from Dora's neck, enabling the twins to attack her. Dora, however, escapes into the school chapel, where the twin vampires are destroyed. Meanwhile, Anton's father, Dr. Kersch, who has escaped the blockade, returns from the capital with an imperial escort and medicines for the plague. He also brings news of vampire killings in various other villages, all of them toured by the Circus of Night. The men attack the circus and set fire to it. In the crypt at Castle Mitterhaus, the gypsy woman is killed when she attempts to save Dora from Emil. As she falls down dead, the gypsy's face is transformed, revealing her to be Anna Müller. Anton, Müller and the soldiers attack the crypt, and Müller pierces Emil with the stake from the Count's chest before he himself dies. The Count rises from his sarcophagus and is destroyed by Anton. As Anton and Dora exit the tomb, the villagers set the ruins alight with torches, ending the curse.Georgie Soloway  is a rock music composer who experiences personal conflicts when trying to track down a man named Harry Kellerman, who had been spreading outrageous lies about him. Soloway is a rich and successful man who lives in a fancy penthouse apartment and seemingly has everything, but he's beginning to think he is losing his mind; he can't sleep, women he's dated are rejecting him after getting calls from the mysterious "Harry", and he fantasizes committing suicide by leaping off his balcony. Regular visits to his psychiatrist are not helping. At night he struggles with insomnia and can only sleep when his long-suffering accountant comes over and reads his earnings statements to him. When he does sleep, he dreams again about jumping to his death. As Georgie tries to make sense of his life, he thinks back on his experiences. Although Georgie is a love song writer, he's never had a successful, lasting relationship. His first love, Ruthie, broke up with him after he got her pregnant and she had to have an abortion. He later met a kind waitress named Gloria who he also got pregnant; he married Gloria and they had two children, but then he cheated on her and she asked for a divorce. More recently, he met an aging actress named Alison ([[Barbara Harris  who had just miserably failed an audition for a rock musical. Alison turned out to have a lot in common with him, including a failed marriage and thoughts of suicide. When he learns it's her birthday, he takes her for a ride in his private plane and they spend one romantic evening together. Georgie visits his aging father, who runs a small restaurant and has always had a dream of opening a bigger place. Georgie asks him why he doesn't move elsewhere and open the large restaurant of his dreams with the checks Georgie has sent him, instead of always sending back the checks. His father explains that he is starting to suffer the effects of arteriosclerosis and that it's too late for him to open a new restaurant now, because he will soon die. Georgie goes for a ride over New York City in his private plane and looks for the cemetery where his father said he wanted to be buried. Then he tries to call first Ruthie and then Alison on the sky phone in the plane. Neither of the women recognize his voice, so he hangs up, but not before revealing that he himself is "Harry Kellerman." At the end, Georgie is shown crashing his private plane into the buildings of Manhattan, then cheerfully skiing away with his psychiatrist.The film is set in an Upper East Side apartment in New York City in the late 1960s. Michael , a Roman Catholic and recovering alcoholic, is preparing to host a birthday party for his friend Harold. Another of his friends, Donald , a self-described underachiever who has moved from the city, arrives and helps Michael prepare. Alan ([[Peter White , Michael's  old college roommate from Georgetown, calls with an urgent need to see Michael. Michael reluctantly agrees and invites him to his home. One by one, the guests arrive. Emory  is a stereotypical flamboyant interior decorator; Hank , a soon-to-be-divorced schoolteacher, and Larry , a fashion photographer, are a couple, albeit one with monogamy issues; and Bernard  is an amiable black bookstore clerk. Alan calls again to inform Michael he isn't coming after all, and the party continues in a festive manner. However, Alan does appear unexpectedly and throws the gathering into turmoil. "Cowboy"  – a male hustler and Emory's "gift" to Harold – arrives. As tensions mount, Alan assaults Emory and in the ensuing chaos Harold finally makes his grand appearance. Michael begins drinking again. As the guests become more and more intoxicated, the party moves indoors from the patio due to a sudden downpour. Michael, who believes Alan is a closeted homosexual, begins a game in which the objective is for each guest to call the one person whom he truly believes he has loved. With each call, past scars and present anxieties are revealed. Michael's plan to "out" Alan with the game appears to backfire when Alan calls his wife, not the male college friend Justin Stewart whom Michael had presumed to be Alan's lover. As the party ends and the guests depart, Michael collapses into Donald's arms, sobbing. When he pulls himself together, it appears his life will remain very much the same.The film's central character is a reclusive foreign-born actress, one of the greatest movie stars of the century, who inexplicably has retained her youthful beauty despite her advancing years. In the opening scene she commits suicide by throwing herself in front of a train, and among the mourners at her funeral is aging has-been Hollywood producer Barry "Dutch" Detweiler, with whom she once had a brief affair and who serves as the film's narrator. We flashback to a villa on an island near Corfu, where Dutch had visited Fedora two weeks earlier, determined to convince her to star in a new screen adaptation of Anna Karenina. She had told him she was a prisoner in her remote retreat, held captive by aged Polish Countess Sobryanski, her overprotective servant Miss Balfour, her chauffeur Kritos, and Dr. Vando, who seemingly was responsible for keeping the one-time star looking so young. When he had tried to respond to Fedora's plea for help, Dutch had been knocked unconscious by Kritos. He had awakened nearly a week later, only to learn Fedora had killed herself. At her funeral, Dutch accuses Vando and the Countess of driving Fedora to her death. The Countess ultimately reveals she actually is Fedora, and the woman who died was her daughter Antonia, who had been impersonating the actress for years after one of the doctor's treatments disfigured her. Antonia's charade was successful until she fell in love with actor Michael York while making a film with him and decided to tell him the truth. In order to ensure her silence, she was held captive and kept drugged, until she finally killed herself. Dutch bids the real Fedora farewell, and six weeks later, she dies too.In a desperate attempt to save her faltering marriage, 55-year-old Barbara Sawyer submits to full-body plastic surgery in a Swiss clinic, then checks into an exclusive ski resort to await the arrival of her attorney husband Mark. Reveling in her considerably younger and tauter appearance, she allows playboy Erich to seduce her. When Mark finally arrives, he announces he is divorcing Barbara to marry a younger woman, leaving her to start a new life with her new looks.In 1919 Latvia, a detachment of German soldiers is stationed in a chateau in the town of Kratovice to fight Bolshevik guerrillas. The chateau is the home of the soldier Konrad de Reval and his sister Sophie de Reval. Sophie is attracted to another soldier, a close friend of Konrad's named Erich von Lhomond. However, the reticent Erich rebuffs her advances. In retaliation, Sophie has trysts with other members of the military troop. Erich is noticeably angered by her behavior. Eventually, Sophie learns that Erich and Konrad are lovers. After this discovery, she joins the leftist guerrillas, whom she had been in contact with previously. Erich's soldiers capture her and her comrades. Sophie asks that Erich execute her himself, and he obliges. In a striking single tracking shot, we see Erich casually shoot Sophie in the head before joining in a photo with the other soldiers. As all board a train, the camera pans back to the corpses of the executed.Kevin  and his best mate Bob  drive around Sydney trying to pick up girls in Kevin's FJ Holden. Kevin meets Anne  at a party and she agrees to let him to drive her home. Bob joins the ride, and she has sex with both men. However, a relationship develops between Anne and Kevin and they go to restaurants, race cars, and get drunk. The romance falters, partly because Kevin let Bob watch them having sex in her bedroom. Drunk and upset, Kevin tries to talk to Bob, who is incapable of a serious conversation. Bob is secretly happy that he has his friend back, but neither is capable of saying what he feels.Richard Burrows is a medical student with a pregnant wife, Jody, who becomes unappealing to him before and after childbirth, abstaining from sex and gaining weight. When her mother moves in with them, Richard's home life frustrates him even more. Flirtations with nurses and patients begin, with Jody catching him being unfaithful. But after he becomes a surgeon at a Los Angeles hospitals, the infidelity continues. Richard meets a married model, Helene Donnelly, and begins meeting her secretly in motels. They contemplate getting divorces. Richard decides to make one last attempt to save his marriage. He evicts his mother-in-law from the premises and persuades Jody to go to a weight-loss center. When his wife returns, she is slim again and Richard is pleased, until learning that now it is she who wants a divorce.The film is set in Manhattan, New York City. The plot concerns the efforts of a woman  and her lover  to find the murderer of her husband before they are accused of it themselves. The story's climax occurs at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. Reginald Rose's screenplay was nominated for an Edgar Allan Poe Award.Hillary Kramer , a successful perfume magnate awakes one morning to find that her accountant has robbed her blind and left for South America. Going through all of her remaining assets she finds a boxer, purchased as a tax write off. She decides to take Eddie "Kid Natural" Scanlon  who is much more at home giving driving lessons, into the ring and use him as her key to riches. Eddie thinks this will only get him killed and resists. Eventually, Hillary wears Eddie down and she gets funding  for his first fights, all of which go awry, either through Hillary's lack of knowledge about boxing or Eddie's out-of-shape condition . All the while, Hillary and Eddie continue sparring on their own, thanks to their different personalities. But, as time  go on, they develop an increasingly personal relationship, which ultimately leads them to have to decide what they really want.Sweeney  is a playwright on a career decline. He spends much of his time wheedling money and beer out of his artistic friend Moriarty . One of his few highlights is weekly sex with his ex-wife Georgia . She is in an unhappy marriage with a successful construction contractor . Georgia's husband inexplicably wants to tear down his mother-in-law's house. Georgia works to oppose this, she trades sexual favors for influence with mayoral candidate Burton . Sweeney's escapades end with a fake kidnapping scam. This gets the attention of two inept police officers, played by John Candy and Lawrence Dane. These two end up dressed as garbage men in the chase scene finale; everything winds up with a happy ending.Two young girls, Margaret  and Lisa , are set to take the overnight train from Munich in Germany to stay with Lisa's parents in Italy for Christmas. On boarding they find the train is full and are forced to sit in the corridor. Meanwhile, two petty criminals, Blackie  and Curly , also board the train as it is leaving Munich to escape from a pursuing policeman. Wandering down the train looking for kicks the two thugs come across Margaret and Lisa who help them hide from the ticket collector. Blackie then encounters an upper-class blonde older woman  who he makes to molest in the toilets only for her to aggressively seduce him instead. As Curly gets into a fight, the girls become increasingly wary of the two thugs' behaviour and make their way further down the train to escape them. Arriving in Innsbruck in Austria the train is stopped and searched following a tip-off that there was a bomb on board. The girls decide to try and call Lisa's parents to tell them of the delay but can't get through. Meanwhile in Italy her parents are preparing for Christmas and hosting a dinner party for their friends where Lisa's father , a doctor, decries the growing violence in society. Back in Innsbruck the girls decide to board a different train which will take them directly through to their destination. On boarding the new train however they find it is old, run down and virtually empty. Finding a compartment in the last carriage they settle down for their trip, happy to have seats at last, and begin to eat a packed lunch by candlelight. As the train travels into the night the girls are alarmed to discover that the two thugs and the blonde woman are on board as well and the three soon force their way into the girls' compartment. Stealing the food, Blackie and the blonde then engage in various lewd acts while taunting the girls. Curly is acting strangely and disappears to shoot up heroin in the toilets. Returning, he catches Margaret just as she attempts to escape the compartment only for the girl to knee him in the genitals. Strung out and enraged, Curly beats Margaret into submission then, egged on by Blackie and the blonde, forces Lisa to masturbate him. Now completely manipulating the situation, the blonde spots another passenger, a peeping tom who is watching them through the compartment window. Grabbing the man, the two thugs force him to rape Margaret, but when they are distracted by Lisa vomiting he escapes down the train. Continuing to taunt and abuse the girls the blonde encourages Curly to rape Lisa but he is unable to break her hymen. Although Blackie is now becoming concerned at the way events are heading the blonde holds down Lisa while encouraging Curly to cut her with his flick knife to help him. The blonde enthusiastically grabs the knife and forces it deeper into Lisa causing her to hemorrhage and killing her. With Lisa now dead and daylight breaking, the previously catatonic Margaret makes a break for it and manages to lock herself in the toilet while the blonde orders the two thugs to bring her back. Now frantic, Margaret climbs out of the window and flings herself from the train in an attempt to escape only to be killed in the fall. Angry at the turn of events the blonde gets the others to throw Lisa's body out of the window followed by their luggage, stealing their tickets and some other items in the process. Angry at what has happened, Blackie blames the blonde and punches and kicks her. Arriving at the station to meet the girls, Lisa's parents are alarmed when they don't arrive at the allotted time. The stationmaster tells them that their train had been delayed, so the doctor and his wife elect to return home and await news of the arrival time of the girls. As they are leaving they come across the blonde and two thugs and Gulio agrees to treat the blonde's injuries  back at the house. Waiting for news of the girls the couple feed the two thugs while Gulio treats the blonde. Lisa's mother becomes suspicious of her houseguests when she spies Curly is wearing a tie exactly like the one she was told Lisa had bought for her father as a Christmas present. The trio continue to act suspiciously and Gulio elects to take them back to town and goes to fetch the car. While in the car he hears a radio report naming his daughter as a body that had been found by the train track before spying the blonde who is trying to escape having realised they are at the house of one of the girls they had murdered. Grabbing the blonde, Gulio tries to strangle her but she convinces him that the two thugs had killed the girls and had threatened to do the same to her. Believing the woman, Gulio leaves her with his wife before heading off to find the others. He discovers Curly in his surgery injecting some heroin he had found and grabs the younger man forcing the needle further into his arm, overdosing him. The doctor then repeatedly beats Curly with various furniture and surgical instruments leaving him in a bloody mess on the floor. Spying Blackie trying to flee, he grabs a shotgun and pursues him through the gardens. Curly manages to crawl into the driveway and tries to grab the blonde only for her to kick him to death. Gulio wounds Blackie in the leg before shooting him at point blank range. As the police arrive, the blonde woman's fate remains uncertain.Laura  and Fabrizio  have been meeting every summer in the forest by her parent's summer home. Fabrizio is a solitary boy with only his dog for company; Laura a sweet, but unconfident child. This summer new aspects enter into their story as both are growing up. The film represents them as part child, part adult. Part naive, part knowing. Laura is falling in love with Fabrizio, while he displays a new sexual awareness of her masked by his malice. Fabrizio becomes inexplicably cruel. He accelerates his unwarranted torment of Laura in many ways, including tying her up and putting a snake near her and killing a pet bird she is fond of. Fabrizio prides himself on being 'king of the forest' and rubbishes Laura's tender attempts to be his queen. One day they climb the "Blue Mountain", a mysterious tall mountain at the forest's edge and discover ancient building ruins. Exploring these they find a cave. Inside, Fabrizio seduces Laura. Fabrizio's cruel streak is boosted by his new sexual confidence. At one point he virtually forces himself on Laura, much to her upset. He does relent when she makes it clear she wants Fabrizio to be gentle with her, which he ridicules. Things develop further when they meet Sylvia . Unlike the previously virginal Laura, Sylvia is confident and assertive. Fabrizio develops a fascination with her, eventually bribing Laura to fetch her to the forest to join them in play. Sylvia aware of Fabrizio’s interest in her, asserts herself in his affections, quickly replacing Laura and demoting her to servant and victim, which Fabrizio takes delight in. Laura, reluctant to leave her old friend and new lover, stays and becomes the target of the duo's ever progressing cruelty. At one point, they both 'hunt' Laura with bows and arrows and at another, pretend to throw her off a high ledge. They make love in front of her, insisting her punishment is that she must watch, leaving Laura confused and heartbroken. At the end of summer, with the girls talking about returning to school, Fabrizio becomes pensive and agitated. He insists on taking Sylvia to the ruins for the first time. All three of them go into the cave to escape a thunderstorm and Fabrizio again pretends they are lost as he did with Laura. Sylvia breaks down sobbing for her mother, all traces of her confidence and maturity lost in the fear of being in the cave. Fabrizio repeatedly begs Sylvia to stay with him forever. In the morning, Sylvia is still lost in the cave and further rejects the desperate Fabrizio and his pleas to stay with him. She becomes hysterical and he kills her with a knife, feeling it is the only way he won't lose her. He stays with the dead body and gives Laura the flashlight telling her she knows the way home and Laura reluctantly leaves.The film centers on the family of a scientist named Albert Dooley ([[Dean Jones  who struggles to pay the bills. His wife, Katie  gets a recipe for applesauce wrong and gives it to her husband to take to work for lunch, hoping it will help cut down on the budget. In a humorous chain reaction, the duck Albert is testing steals the applesauce after Albert has thrown it away in the trash, and then wanders into a radiation lab and becomes irradiated. Albert is ordered to get rid of the duck, so he figures he can give it to his son, Jimmy  who has been wanting a pet, only to discover it now lays golden eggs. In a Pavlovian manner, the duck, named "Charlie" , lays an egg when prompted by the barking of a dog. At first, the only ones who know of Charlie's golden yolks are Albert, Katie, Jimmy and Albert's friend, Fred, but as they sell the yolks of gold, they gain the attention of a suspicious neighbor, a government bureaucrat from the US Treasury Department named Mr. Hooper ([[Joe Flynn , who starts spying on them  his wife gets angry, and ultimately convinces his boss, Rutledge ([[James Gregory , to get the duck after worldwide phone calls spread the rumor and Rutledge gets a phone call from President Richard Nixon to "get that duck!". Albert is overcome by greed and no longer cares for his son, which saddens Jimmy. The Treasury Department officials  soon arrives at the house and orders them to turn over the duck. Jimmy, watching from upstairs, climbs out the window with Charlie, and then rides off with a couple of teenage boys and their hot rod as the government officials try to capture the duck to prevent it from laying gold. In the film's climax, Jimmy is suspended on a ladder between two parking garages, and Albert attempts to convince his son to grab his hand before the ladder falls. Jimmy tells his dad to "go away", believing he only wants to save Charlie, but when the ladder begins to break, he grows fearful and grabs his father's hand. They then leave the parking garage, but Albert is promptly arrested by the US Treasury Department officials. The film ends with the family in court, and the judge breaks an egg into a glass after Mr. Hooper  and then Albert  barks at the duck to prompt the laying of the egg, which surprisingly turns out to be an ordinary egg yolk, as the effect of the radiation had run out. The judge dismisses the charges on account of no proof of a duck laying golden eggs, and Albert tells the family the golden duck was nice while it lasted, but at least they can keep the duck for their pet, now realizing that his family is more important than wealth. The judge then advises Jimmy, "One word of caution, son. If it ever lays another gold egg, bury it, quick!" Albert then puts Jimmy on his shoulders and exits the courthouse into a crowd of cheering onlookers.Gomez's brother, Pancho, is staying with the family while Gomez goes to a lodge meeting in Tombstone, Arizona. Gomez is jealous of his brother, who once courted Morticia. Halloween is nigh, and Pancho tells the legend of Cousin Shy, who distributes gifts and carves pumpkins. A gang of crooks have bugged the Addamses' home and plan to take advantage of Gomez's absence to steal the family fortune. The lead crook "Bones" Lafferty sends an associate named Mikey to investigate. Wednesday  is home from music academy, where she studies the piccolo . Pugsley  is home from Nairobi medical school, where he is training to be a witch doctor. Mikey panics and flees after treading on the tail of the family's pet lion Kitty Kat. The crooks have a fake Gomez and Morticia to help in their plans, along with two strong-arm goons, Hercules and Atlas. Gomez returns home for the Halloween party and trimming of the scarecrow. Lafferty poses as Quincy Addams  to get in. He has his men tie up Gomez and Morticia and his doubles take their places, confusing Pancho, who is still in love with Morticia. Lurch scares off the thugs and terrifies the assistant crook Louie the Lard . Fester, trying to be nice, puts Lafferty on the rack. Lafferty tries to escape through the secret passage and steps on Kitty Kat's tail. When the police arrive upon responding to a noise complaint, Lafferty and his gang surrender. The Addams Family are then free to celebrate Halloween happily.Mrs. Forrest, in the eyes of the staff and children at an orphanage, is a sweet, kind-mannered and children-loving widow, who throws a lavish annual Christmas party at her mansion, Forrest Grange  for ten of the best-mannered children at the orphanage. But secretly, she is a demented, sad and miserable woman who keeps the mummified remains of her daughter Katharine in a nursery room in the attic, singing lullabies to her and trying to contact her spirit with the assistance of  psychic Mr. Benton. He fools Forrest into believing that the voice of Clarine, one of the servants, during the fake séances is that of Katharine. Christopher and Katy Coombs are orphaned brother and sister. Christopher has a wild imagination, telling stories about dragons and witches that frighten the other orphans. When he and his sister are not included in the list of ten orphans for the Christmas party at Auntie Roo's mansion, he and Katy sneak into the car of Inspector Willoughby, who transfers the orphans to Forrest Grange, and are warmly welcomed by Auntie Roo. Auntie Roo is surprised to see the resemblance of her daughter Katharine to Katy, and becomes more and more focused on her. Katy is missing as the party ends and the other orphans leave. Auntie Roo promises to find her and send her back. Christopher realizes that Katy is not just missing, but was kidnapped by Auntie Roo. Meanwhile, Albie, the young, sadistic butler, discovers that Auntie Roo has Katy locked in the nursery room. He blackmails her into giving him £2,000 by threatening to reveal her secret to the police unless she pays to keep him quiet. After this, he and Clarine depart from the mansion and leave her alone with Katy. When no one believes Christopher about seeing Auntie Roo singing lullabies to mummified Katharine, or that Katy has really been abducted, he runs away to the mansion but ends up trapped inside too. Auntie Roo wants to replace Katy for Katharine, but in Christopher's mind, he thinks Auntie Roo is really a witch wanting to devour him and his sister. Auntie Roo prepares a dinner for the New Year's coming, while Christopher assists her. He steals the key to the nursery room. After Christopher frees Katy, Auntie Roo chases them to the kitchen where Christopher tries to protect them with a knife. Knocking it from his hand with a piece of wood, Auntie Roo corners them in the pantry and locks the door. Auntie Roo hears in her mind her daughter shouting for her and runs to her coffin in the attic. When she tries to touch the corpse's face, it disintegrates to dust. Auntie Roo returns to the kitchen in a highly agitated state yelling "I have nothing, I have nothing." She turns the hour glass over to time her cooking and starts chopping potatoes with a large cleaver. She then hears the children from the pantry calling to her to let them out, but she resists listening to them. Katy then says "Please, mommy", touching the heart of Auntie Roo. Completely lost in her delusions she opens the door to embrace Katy . Christopher knocks things from the high shelf causing Auntie Roo to fall. The children lock the door but Auntie Roo begins hacking at it with a cleaver. Christopher and Katy place the fire-wood he had been fetching at the door and set it on fire with paraffin . Smashing through parts of the door with the cleaver Auntie Roo sees the fire and it comes into the pantry surrounding her. Auntie Roo, deep in her psychosis, falls in a corner. The children emerge from the smoked-filled building, carrying the almost forgotten teddy bear that belonged to Katharine , while Mrs. Forrest, surrounded by fire, shouts at Katy to come back to her. Outside, the orphans meet Auntie Roo's butcher, Mr. Harrison, who is delivering a whole piglet by horse-cart. He sees the smoke inside and drives off to call the fire brigade. Katy realizes she was to cook the pig, but Christopher says they were to be eaten after it. When he leaves, Christopher quips, "Bloody good fire", while inside, the whole cellar goes up in flames. The fire brigade arrives and puts out the fire but are unable to rescue Mrs. Forrest. Inspector Willoughby will take the children back to the orphanage. Still outside, the orphanage doctor, Dr. Mason, comments "Poor little devils. They'll probably have nightmares till the day they die". Christopher and Katy smile at each other, departing from the burned mansion, with Christopher ending the tale by saying "Hansel and Gretel knew that the wicked witch could not harm anyone else and they were happy. They also knew that with the wicked witch's treasure they would not be hungry again. So they lived happily ever after."Set in 1913 Whitby, England, Count Dracula  arrives from Transylvania via the ship Demeter one stormy night. A sickly Mina Van Helsing , who is visiting her friend Lucy Seward , discovers Dracula's body after his ship has run aground. After praising her as his "Savior," the Count visits Mina and her friends at the household of Lucy's father, Dr. Jack Seward , whose clifftop mansion also serves as the local asylum. At dinner, he proves to be a charming guest and leaves a strong impression on the hosts, Lucy especially. Less charmed by this handsome Romanian count is Jonathan Harker , Lucy's fiancé. Later that night, while Lucy and Jonathan are having a secret rendezvous, Dracula reveals his true nature as he descends upon Mina to drink her blood. The following morning, Lucy finds Mina awake in bed struggling for breath. Powerless, she watches her friend die, only to find wounds on her throat. Lucy blames herself for Mina's death, as she had left her alone. At a loss for the cause of death, Dr. Seward calls for Mina's father, Professor Abraham Van Helsing . Van Helsing suspects what might have killed his daughter: a vampire. Moreover, he begins to worry about what fate his seemingly dead daughter may now have since her encounter with the creature. Seward and Van Helsing investigate their suspicions and discover a makeshift tunnel within Mina's coffin  which leads to the local mines. It is there that they encounter the ghastly form of an undead Mina, and it is up to a distraught Van Helsing to destroy what remains of his own daughter. Lucy meanwhile has been summoned to Carfax Abbey, Dracula's new home, and soon she reveals herself to be in love with this foreign prince and openly offers herself to him as his bride. After a surreal "Wedding Night" sequence , Lucy, like Mina before her, is now infected by Dracula's blood. However, the two doctors manage to give Lucy a blood transfusion to help prevent her vampirism, but nothing can stop the inevitable now. Now aided by Jonathan, the elderly doctors realize that the only way to defeat Dracula  is by destroying him. They manage to locate his coffin within the grounds of Carfax Abbey, but the vampire is waiting for them . Dracula escapes their feeble attempt to kill him and bursts into the asylum to free the captive Lucy. While there he murders his one-time slave, Milo Renfield  for warning the others about him. Dracula now intends for him and Lucy to return to Transylvania together. In a race against time, Harker and Van Helsing just manage to get on board a ship carrying the vampire cargo bound for Romania. Below decks, Harker and Van Helsing find the Count's coffin; upon opening it they see Lucy sleeping beside her new "husband", Dracula. Again they try to destroy him, but the Count awakens and once more fights with his assassins. In the struggle, Van Helsing is fatally wounded by Dracula as he is impaled by the stake intended for the vampire. As the enraged Count now turns his attention to Harker, the dying doctor uses his remaining strength to throw a hook , into Dracula's back. Harker seizes his only chance and hoists the Count's body up through the cargo hold and into the sunlight above. Dracula then suffers a slow and painful death as the solar rays burn his body to ashes. Lucy, now apparently herself once more, reaches out to Harker tenderly, but Harker, still feeling betrayed, turns away coldly as he stares at the dead Van Helsing. It is at that moment that she looks up to see Dracula's cape flying away in the wind, where she smiles enigmatically.Jamie Hopkins , an art student and frustrated pop star lives with his mother , who works as a receptionist for Dr. Berman , a psychiatrist who is experimenting with psychedelic drugs. Jamie wants to make money quickly, and begins to work at the doctor's office as a pretence in order to steal drugs. When his girlfriend Carol  is converted to Christianity when attending a crusade led by evangelist Billy Graham, she attempts to show him the error of his ways. Soon after, Jamie is caught stealing from Dr. Berman's drug supply, and attempting to double-cross drug dealer Alec Fitch . Initially hostile toward his girlfriend's new-found faith, Jamie eventually accepts it.Framing Story – Five strangers board a descending lift, one by one, in a modern office block in London. They reach the basement, though none of them have pressed for that destination. There they find a large, elaborately furnished room which appears to be a gentlemen’s club. The lift door has closed and there are no buttons to bring it back, nor any other exit. Resigned to waiting for help, they settle down with drinks and talk. The conversation turns to dreams, and each man tells of a recurring nightmare. Midnight Mess ([[Tales from the Crypt  – Harold Rodgers ([[Daniel Massey  tracks his sister Donna  to a strange village and kills her to claim her inheritance. After settling down for a post-murder meal at the local restaurant, he discovers the town is home to a nest of vampires: Donna is not as dead as he thinks, and he becomes the dish of the night when his jugular vein is tapped out as a beverage dispenser. The Neat Job  – The obsessively neat Arthur Critchit  marries Eleanor , a young trophy wife who is not quite the domestic goddess he hoped for. His constant nagging about the mess she makes eventually drives her mad. Upon his shouting at her, "Can't you do anything neatly?", she kills him with a hammer and cuts up the corpse, putting all the different organs into neatly labeled jars. This Trick’ll Kill You  – Sebastian  is a magician on a working holiday in India, where he and his wife are searching for new tricks. Nothing impresses until he sees a girl charming a rope out of a basket with a flute. Unable to work out how the trick is done, he persuades her to come to his hotel room, where he and his wife Inez  murder her and steal the enchanted rope. Sebastian plays the flute, and the rope rises; Inez climbs it, only to disappear with a scream. An ominous patch of blood appears on the ceiling, and the rope coils round Sebastian's neck and hangs him. Their victim reappears alive in the bazaar. Bargain in Death  – Maitland ([[Michael Craig  is buried alive as part of an insurance scam concocted with his friend Alex . Alex double-crosses Maitland, leaving him to suffocate. Two trainee doctors Tom  and Jerry  bribe a gravedigger  to dig up a corpse to help with their studies. When Maitland’s coffin is opened, he jumps up gasping for air, causing Tom and Jerry to run out into the middle of the road in front of Alex’s car, which crashes. The gravedigger kills Maitland and when trying to close the sale of the corpse apologises to Tom and Jerry for the damage to the head. Drawn and Quartered  – Moore  is an impoverished painter living on Haiti. When he learns that his work has been sold for high prices by dealers and critics who told him that it was worthless, he goes to a voodoo priest and his painting hand is given voodoo power; whatever he paints or draws can be harmed by damaging its image. Returning to London, Moore paints portraits of the three men who cheated him, and mutilates them to exact his revenge. His undoing is a self-portrait he had half-finished before receiving the gift; it too is enchanted, and he is killed when a workman drops a can of paint thinner on it through a skylight. When the story of the final dream is told, the five ponder the meaning of their nightmares. The lift door opens, and they find themselves looking out onto a graveyard. They walk out and disappear one by one. Sebastian  explains that they are damned souls doomed to tell the story of their evil deeds for all eternity.Budapest, Londres, Madrid, New-York, Paris, Munich: Bernt Mittler goes on report about housewives sexual life.An older man, played by Paul Dooley, tries romancing a younger woman, played by Marta Heflin. She is part of a travelling band of bohemian musicians who perform gigs in outdoor arenas around the country. He joins them on the road and tries to fit into their communal lifestyle. The film features multiple musical numbers.An American actress inherits a castle in Transylvania. What she does not know is that her ancestor, the Baroness Catali, was in actuality a vampire countess, and emerges from her tomb to ravage the nearby village and Catholic seminary.A tragicomedy set in a fading Scottish aristocratic family, in which the drunken Sir Charles Henry Arbuthnot Pinkerton Ferguson, Bt  has an incestuous relationship with his equally eccentric sister Hilary Dow .A sorority house is hosting a Christmas party late into the night. A seemingly disoriented man climbs up the house's trellis and through an open attic window. During the party, sorority sister Jess Bradford  receives an obscene phone call from a recurrent caller the house has named "the moaner". After Barbara "Barb" Coard  jokingly provokes the caller, he replies, "I'm going to kill you", then hangs up. Soon after, Clare Harrison  is offended by Barb and goes upstairs to finish packing for her trip home. In her room, she finds Claude the cat on the bed. She tells him to move as she has got some things to do. While she is packing, she hears the cat's cries and goes to investigate. Clare is attacked by the disoriented man and asphyxiated with plastic sheeting over her head. He carries her dead body to the attic and places it in a rocking chair next to the attic window and puts a doll in her lap. The next day, Mr. Harrison , Clare's father, arrives to take Clare home for the holidays. When Clare is not at their agreed-upon meeting place, he goes to the sorority house. Meanwhile, Jess meets her boyfriend, Peter Smythe , a neurotic aspiring pianist, and informs him that she is pregnant and wants to have an abortion. Peter is upset by her decision and orders her to discuss the situation with him later. Mr. Harrison and sorority sisters Barb and Phyllis "Phyl" Carlson  arrive at the police station to report Clare's disappearance. Sgt. Nash dismisses the report and says that Clare is probably "hiding with a lover". After Jess informs Clare's boyfriend, Chris , about Clare's disappearance and Sgt. Nash's dismissive attitude, they rush back to the police station to discuss the disappearance with Lt. Kenneth Fuller ([[John Saxon . A local mother reports that her daughter, Janice, is missing as well. That evening, Mr. Harrison, Chris, and the sorority sisters join a search party aiming to find Janice or Clare. Back at the house, Mrs. MacHenry , the sorority's housemother, hears Claude's meows in the attic and investigates. She discovers Clare's body, but the killer launches a crane hook into Mrs. MacHenry's head and hangs her. After the search party finds Janice's dead body near the park, Jess returns home and receives another obscene phone call. Jess phones the police about the caller. Later, Peter arrives and argues with Jess about her decision to have an abortion. Peter becomes frustrated and leaves after Lt. Fuller arrives to discuss the phone calls with Jess. A technician places a tap "bug tracer" onto the sorority house phone to trace the phone calls. An officer is also stationed outside the house. After Barb is sent to bed for being "too drunk", the killer appears in her room and stabs her to death with a unicorn ornament. Door-to-door Christmas carolers drown out the noise of the attack. Jess receives another obscene phone call that quotes a part of the argument she had with Peter. Jess suspects Peter of being the caller, but she and Phyl decided that it cannot be him, since Peter was present during one of the earlier calls. Phyl goes upstairs to bed, but decides to check on Barb first. As Phyl goes into the room to check on Barb, the door suddenly shuts. The calls continue to come in. Jess manages to keep the caller on the phone for a minute, allowing the police to trace the location of the call to inside the house . Jess is ordered to leave the house immediately, but she puts down the phone and yells up to Barb and Phyl. Lt. Fuller is informed of the situation and leaves for the house. Jess arms herself with a fireplace poker and ventures upstairs, finding both Barb and Phyl's dead bodies. The unseen caller attacks Jess and chases her through the house, so Jess locks herself in the basement. Peter appears outside a basement window, telling Jess he heard screaming. He breaks the glass and enters the room. Jess, believing him to be the attacker, backs into a corner as he approaches. Lt. Fuller and the police arrive at the house and find the officer stationed outside dead in his car. Hearing Jess scream, they rush inside and find Jess in the basement with Peter, whom Jess has bludgeoned to death in self-defense. Later, Jess is sedated as Fuller and the officers discuss how Peter must have been the killer all along. They also discuss the fact that Clare's body still hasn't been found, revealing that they neglected to look in the attic. The officers leave Jess to sleep in her bed, stating that a man will be right outside the front door. Once the house is quiet, the phone starts to ring. The audience is shown the attic, with Clare and Mrs. MacHenry's bodies still undisturbed as the killer whispers, "Agnes? it's me, Billy." The camera pulls back to show the outside of the house, and the telephone continues to ring.The film was inspired by the 1970s heroine blaxploitation films such as Tamara Dobson's Cleopatra Jones , and Pam Grier's Coffy  and Foxy Brown . The title character even had a catchphrase; upon apprehending a criminal, Love would declare, "you're under arrest, Sugah!" The film proved a big success, and consequently spawned a short-lived television series on the ABC network featuring Charles Cioffi as Love's supervisor Matt Reardon and Jack Kelly as Lt. Ryan, the next supervisor. However, the series, financed on a meager budget and heavily sanitized to conform to Graves' religious morals , was eventually cancelled. One episode featured many of Graves' former Laugh-In co-stars such as Judy Carne, Jo Anne Worley and Arte Johnson in particular playing a mad bomber. Another notable guest star was Jaclyn Smith, who appeared in an episode entitled "A Fashion Heist."http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0587416/In the San Francisco of the 1970s, Don Baker , who was born blind, has lived all his life with his mother . When the Fletcher family moves near his home, he meets their daughter Linda Fletcher. Linda takes Don out to parties and fills him with confidence. She talks him into moving out of his mother's house and having his own apartment. She even finds an apartment for him. She encourages Don to become a musician. But after Don moves into his new apartment, Linda meets a guy from a party and goes to live with him in Mexico. Don finds himself all alone. He has made a contract that his mother will not come to see him for at least two months. One month has passed. This is when Jill Tanner  moves in an apartment next door to Don. She listens to Don talking to his mother over the phone and turns on the radio. When Don asks her to turn the volume down, she invites herself over for a cup of coffee. They start talking and find each other friendly. Jill does not realize that Don is blind, until she sees him dropping his cigarette ash on the table. Jill has never met a blind man before, so she asks all sorts of question about how Don manages everyday chores. She tells Don that her favorite quote is from Mark Twain: "I only ask to be free. The butterflies are free. Mankind will surely not deny to Harold Skimpole what it concedes to the butterflies." Don corrects her that actually this is a quote from Bleak House by Charles Dickens. Don makes up a song and starts to sing Butterflies are free on his guitar. Jill takes Don out for shopping to find better-fitting clothes for an aspiring musician. They have dinner together and later spend the night together in Don's bed. In the morning Don's mother, Mrs. Baker , surprises Don with a visit. Mrs. Baker sees that Don has attached himself to Jill . She fears that Jill will break Don's heart just like Linda did. She takes Jill out for a lunch and tries to talk her out of Don's life. Jill has strong feelings for Don and tells Mrs. Baker that if there is someone who should get out of Don's life, it is she. However, Jill herself has problems making a commitment, and when she starts to fall for Don, she begins to look for ways to end the growing relationship. She makes a dinner date with Don, but she appears over three hours late with another man, Ralph . She announces that she is moving in with Ralph, who is director of a play in which she'll be acting . This breaks Don's heart and he gets ready to go home with his mother. Mrs. Baker, who had been telling Don to come back home, makes an about-face and starts telling him not to come home and to face life's challenges. Mrs. Baker leaves. Soon after, Jill departs. Don is shattered and trips over the sofa. Sitting on the floor, he puts his head down on the table in despair. This is when he hears someone opening the door of the apartment. Jill walks in and asks Don what he's doing on the floor. Don says, "I was just about to have a picnic." Jill asks, "Without me?" Don answers, "I didn't know I had a choice." The picture ends with the two embracing.The story begins in 1924 in New York City, where W.C. Fields is a Ziegfeld Follies headliner, and ends with his 1946 death in California at age 66. In between, it dramatizes his life and career with emphasis on the latter part of both, when the "Me" of the title, Carlotta Monti, played a prominent role, with a number of fictionalized events added for dramatic impact. Having lost his girlfriend Melody to another man and most of his life savings due to careless investments by his broker, Fields heads west to Santa Monica, where he operates a wax museum until he's offered a film role. He quickly becomes a major screen presence and a notorious drinker. While at a party with his friends John Barrymore, Gene Fowler and restaurant owner Dave Chasen, Fields is introduced to starlet Carlotta Monti, whom he hires as a live-in secretary. In order to stifle her theatrical aspirations, he arranges a screen test. The studio boss Harry Bannerman decides she has some talent, but Fields threatens to quit Paramount Pictures unless she's discouraged from pursuing a career in films. When she learns the truth, Carlotta leaves him and goes to New York. When Barrymore passes away, she returns to Hollywood to comfort Fields. On the set of My Little Chickadee, she learns why her efforts to get him to marry her have routinely been rebuffed: his first marriage has never been dissolved legally. Although hurt by the revelation, Carlotta resigns herself to a life of unwedded bliss that often crumbles into sorrow and frustration as the relentlessly mean-spirited Fields continues to drink heavily and his health steadily declines. The comic is hospitalized and, after enduring great physical pain, dies on Christmas Day, a holiday he had despised with a passion.Gas station attendant Clint Ramsey, who works at Martin Bormann's Super Service in the desert, finds himself too irresistible to a series of women, all of whom have the word "Super" in their given names. In the beginning, he is married to the hypersexual, demanding, and jealous SuperAngel , who constantly harasses him at work. She orders him home at once when she calls Clint and overhears a female customer, SuperLorna , hitting on him at work. Clint finds SuperAngel's constant accusations and arguing a turnoff and, back at home, they fight after he rejects her aggressive advances. A neighbor calls the police as Clint leaves for a local bar, where the bartender is the very scantily clad SuperHaji ([[Haji . Meanwhile, SuperAngel seduces Harry Sledge ([[Charles Napier , the cop who responded to the police call. He is impotent and unable to perform. She repeatedly taunts and insults him over this, which finally results in him killing her by stomping her brutally in a bathtub, then throwing a radio in the water which was plugged into the wall socket. Sledge burns down the house, then tries to pin the murder on Clint. Clint claims being in the pub all night, but SuperHaji has her revenge on him  by refusing to confirm his alibi. Clint is then forced to flee. In his rush to escape, Clint hitchhikes a ride from a man  and his girlfriend SuperCherry . During the drive, SuperCherry comes on to him and puts his hand over her breast, but then pulls it back. She then tries to give him a handjob over his pants, but he continues to resist her advances. The driver takes offense to Clint rejecting his girlfriend, but she says he probably just wants a closer contact. She again attempts and fails to seduce him and he asks the driver to let him get out. The driver follows him out and beats and robs him. Clint is found by an old farmer who takes him to his farm to heal from his injuries and Clint agrees to work for the farmer for a week to repay him. The farmer has a younger Austrian mail-order bride, SuperSoul , who is hypersexual. After energetically satisfying her husband, she comes knocking on Clint's door at night. She immediately pushes him into his bed where she proceeds to mount and rape him, until he manages to overpower her. However, she does the same the following day and this time overpowering him after jumping him from behind in the barn. Looking for SuperSoul, the farmer finds them in the barn, then chases Clint away and punches SuperSoul. Fleeing from the farm, Clint meets a motel owner and his deaf daughter, SuperEula , who convinces him to take a ride with her in her dune buggy to have sex in the desert. They are caught by her father and chased out of town. Clint eventually meets up with SuperVixen  at Supervixen's Oasis, a roadside diner. SuperVixen is  a friendly and giving reincarnation of SuperAngel, whose ghost now appears nude between scenes to comment on the plot from atop a bedspring balanced on a mesa. Clint and SuperVixen fall in love and are inseparable, although their common nemesis, Harry Sledge, arrives on the scene and plots ending the lives of the now happy couple.Ordinary family man Warren Yeager and his wife Jeannette are delighted to have a documentary filmmaker, Albert Brooks, choose them for a new cinematic and "scientific" experiment -- he intends to capture every waking moment of their daily life on film. It is a project Brooks confidently announces to a large gathering, even greeting them with a song. The concept is for the Yeagers and their two children to go about their business at their Phoenix home, work and school as if nothing is different from a typical day, ignoring the fact that men wearing cameras that look like Star Wars helmets are recording every move they make and every word they say. Brooks promises to be as unobtrusive as possible, taking up a separate residence in the neighborhood and promising not to interfere. Little by little, though, the stress of everyday life is complicated by the presence of the film crew. Brooks also becomes the unwitting object of Mrs. Yeager's attentions. Yeager, a veterinarian, becomes grief-stricken when he is filmed accidentally causing a horse's death. A grandparent's death similarly upsets Jeannette. Soon the couple stops talking, becoming, as Brooks puts it, "lifeless" in their every day life. The unscrupulous man from Hollywood is likely to go to any lengths to make his film more interesting, even if it means dressing up as a clown to cheer them up or letting the Yeager house catch fire.In a city on Spain’s Costa Brava, Clara Valverde, a young beautiful woman, lives with her husband Juan. They seem to have a perfect marriage. Juan is an architect and has planned a daring urbanistic project. In reality, the project is not viable. Clara, to keep her marriage and finances a float, works as a porno actress in an underground film industry. In spite of her job and her marriage, Clara is still a virgin. Her marriage has never been consummated because her husband is impotent for which she blames herself. In her work she does not allow to be penetrated. One day she goes to a reunion with Kellerman, an American millionaire who seems to be interested into put into fruition Juan’s project. However soon Clara learns that what he really wants is to blackmail her. The owner of the house, Jorge finds out Claras’s real occupation and if she does not have sex to the American would tell everything to her husband. Clara is brutally raped by Kellerman. She finds out that not only her husband is not really impotent as she thought, he has had sex with other women including Clara’s friend, but Juan also has an homosexual relationship with Miguel, the director of the porno films. She finally realizes that she has been only a coin changed in the hands of the men around her. Armed with a gun, Clara takes revenge killing Kellerman, humiliating Jorge and Miguel shooting them too.Pete Seltzer  is introduced to Tillie Schlaine  at a party. Her friends Gertrude and Bert are the hosts and attempting to fix her up. Pete is a confirmed bachelor with eccentric habits. When he isn't doing odd motivational research for a San Francisco firm, he plays ragtime piano and makes bad puns. He periodically pops in and out of Tillie's life, going days without calling but showing up spontaneously at her door. When they finally make love, he learns Tillie is a virgin. It appears Pete might still be seeing other women, but when he gets a promotion at work, Tillie announces it's time to get married. They do, then buy a house and have a baby boy. Pete's affairs, however, apparently continue, Tillie even needing to discourage one of his young lovers at lunch. Years go by until one day 9-year-old son Robbie  is stricken with a fatal illness. Pete tries to shield the boy by keeping him in what Tillie calls "a world of nonsense," but the inevitable death destroys Tillie's religious faith and ruptures their marriage. Tillie abstains from sex while Pete turns to drink and takes an apartment. Tillie's depression is alleviated a bit by a friendship with Jimmy , who is gay but willing to marry her if that would make Tillie happy. Bert makes a pass at Tillie as well. When she and Jimmy conspire to make Gert  reveal her true age at long last, the result is a public brawl between the two women. Tillie ends up in a sanitarium. Her life has come to a standstill until Pete turns up one day. When she sees the way their son's death affects him, after years of his hiding it, Tillie and Pete leave side by side.The film focuses on 15-year-old Billy Casper, who has little hope in life and is bullied, both at home by his physically and verbally abusive half-brother, Jud, and at school. He is mischievous, stealing eggs and milk from milk floats, has difficulty paying attention in school, and is often provoked into tussles with classmates. Billy comes over as an emotionally neglected boy with little self-respect. Billy's mother refers to him in the film as a "hopeless case". His father left the family some time ago. The film shows scenes of Billy's school; the headmaster canes a group of boys who were caught smoking. One scene of comic relief in an otherwise bleak film is of a gym teacher taking part in a football game, fantasising about himself as Bobby Charlton and commentating on the match. Outside cadging money and daydreaming at school, Billy has no positive interests. His greatest fear is ending up working down the pit as a coal miner , but he has no apparent escape route until he finds an outlet through training a kestrel that he takes from a nest on a farm. His interest in learning falconry prompts Billy to steal a book on the subject from a secondhand book shop, as he is underage and cannot get a borrower's card from the public library. As the relationship between Billy and "Kes", the kestrel, improves during the training, so does Billy's outlook and horizons. For the first time in the film, Billy receives praise, from his English teacher after delivering an impromptu talk on his relationship with the bird. Jud leaves money and instructions for Billy to place a bet on two horses, but Billy spends the money on chips and on meat for his bird, after having been told that the horses are unlikely to win. However, the horses do win . Furious at Billy and unable to find him, Jud takes revenge by killing his kestrel, whose body Billy retrieves from the bin. After showing the kestrel to Jud and his mother, Billy buries his kestrel in the garden.While searching for an elixir of life, Dr. Henry Jekyll begins using female hormones taken from fresh cadavers supplied by Burke and Hare, reasoning that these hormones will help him to extend his life since women traditionally live for longer than men. These have the effect of not only altering his character  but also of changing his gender, transforming him into a beautiful but evil woman. To explain the sudden appearance of his female half around the house, he calls himself Mrs. Hyde, saying she is Jekyll's widowed sister. Dr. Jekyll soon falls in love with Susan Spencer, the upstairs tenant, but Sister Hyde develops a lust for her brother. Dr. Jekyll soon finds that his serum requires a regular supply of female hormones to maintain its effect, necessitating the killing of young girls. Burke and Hare supply his needs but their criminal activities are uncovered. Burke is lynched by a mob and Hare blinded. The doctor decides to take the matters into his own hands and commits the murders attributed to Jack the Ripper. Dr. Jekyll abhors this, but Sister Hyde relishes the killings as she begins to take control, even killing Jekyll's friend Professor Robertson when he attempts to question Hyde about the murders. As the two personalities begin to struggle for dominance, Dr. Jekyll only just manages to thwart Sister Hyde's attempt to kill Susan. He then commits one last murder to find a way to stabilize his condition, but he is interrupted by the police after a comment by Hare leads them to realize the similarity between Jekyll's earlier experiments on cadavers and the Ripper murders. As Dr. Jekyll tries to escape by climbing along the outside of a building, he transforms into Sister Hyde, who, lacking his strength, falls to the ground, dying as a twisted amalgamation of male and female.The film has a very thin plot which is no more than a vehicle to link together the concert footage. It concerns the adventures of Ashley Wallace ([[Robert Hughes , a naïve DJ on Radio 2TW, who normally presents a through-the-night country and western-themed show. In spite of this, he is sent by the station's boss  to get an in-depth interview  with the group, whose fame and stature neither he nor Ashley have the first clue about, which is to be aired on the day ABBA leave Australia. Needless to say, Ashley, who has never done an interview before, singularly fails, mainly because he has forgotten to pack his press card, although the fact that he is unable to buy a ticket doesn't help matters either. Armed with his trusty reel-to-reel tape recorder, Ashley is forced to follow the group all over Australia, beginning in Sydney, and then travelling, in order, to Perth, Adelaide, and Melbourne, experiencing repeated run-ins with the group's very protective bodyguard , as well as his increasingly exasperated boss. Throughout the movie, we see Ashley interviewing members of the public, asking them if and why they like ABBA- most comments are positive. Eventually, Ashley has an unbelievably lucky chance encounter with Stig Anderson, the group's manager, who agrees to arrange an interview, and gives him tickets to that evening's concert. But Ashley sleeps in and misses the appointed interview time. Just as Ashley is about to give up , he steps into an elevator and finds himself face-to-face with ABBA. They agree to give him an interview, and he leaves Melbourne just in time to meet the deadline for the radio show to go out on-air. He puts together the final edit in the back of a taxi on the way back from the airport, as ABBA depart Australia for Europe. With only minutes to go, Ashley makes it back to the radio station where, having set the tape up on the studio's playback machine, he relaxes at his control desk to listen as the interview—which he worked so long and hard to obtain—is broadcast over the airwaves Down Under.Dr. Frederick Frankenstein  is a respected lecturer at an American medical school and engaged to the tightly wound Elizabeth . He becomes exasperated when anyone brings up the subject of his grandfather, the infamous mad scientist. To disassociate himself from his legacy, Frederick insists that his surname be pronounced "Fronk-en-steen". When a solicitor informs him that he has inherited his family's estate in Transylvania after the death of his great grandfather, the Baron von Frankenstein, Frederick travels to Europe to inspect the property. At the Transylvania train station, he is met by a hunchbacked, bulging-eyed servant named Igor , who is there to drive Frederick in a wagon to the Frankenstein estate, but not before mocking Frederick's pretensions by insisting that his name be pronounced as "eye-gore." Accompanying Igor in the wagon is another servant, a lovely young woman named Inga . Upon arrival at the estate, Frederick meets the forbidding housekeeper Frau Blücher , whose name causes horses to rear up in fright. Though his family legacy has brought shame and ridicule, Frederick becomes increasingly intrigued about his grandfather's work, especially after Inga assists him in discovering the secret entrance to his grandfather's laboratory. Upon reading his grandfather's private journals, Frederick is so transformed that he decides to resume his grandfather's experiments in re-animating the dead. He and Igor resort to robbing the grave of a recently executed criminal, and Frederick sets to work experimenting on the large corpse. Matters go awry, however, when Igor is sent to steal the brain of a deceased revered scientist; startled by lightning, he drops the correct brain on the floor and instead returns with an "abnormal" brain (which he subsequently refers to as "A-b , which Frederick unknowingly transplants into the corpse. Soon, Frederick is ready to re-animate his creature , who is elevated on a platform to the roof of the laboratory during a lightning storm. Eventually, electrical charges bring the creature to life. The Monster makes its first halting steps, but, frightened by Igor lighting a match, attacks Frederick and must be sedated. Upon being asked whose brain was obtained, Igor confesses that he supplied "Abby Normal's" brain , whereupon Frederick attempts to strangle him. The townspeople are uneasy at the possibility of Frederick continuing his grandfather's work. Most concerned is Inspector Kemp , a police official who sports an eyepatch and monocle over the same eye, a creaky, disjointed wooden arm, and an accent so comically thick even his own countrymen cannot understand him. Kemp visits the doctor and subsequently demands assurance that he will not create another monster. Upon returning to the lab, Frederick discovers that Frau Blücher is setting the creature free. After she reveals the Monster's love of violin music, and her own romantic relationship with Frederick's grandfather, the creature is enraged by sparks from a thrown switch, and escapes from the Frankenstein castle. While roaming the countryside, the Monster has frustrating encounters with a young girl and a blind hermit ; these scenes directly parody the original Frankenstein movies. Frederick recaptures the Monster and locks the two of them in a room, where he calms the Monster's homicidal tendencies with flattery and fully acknowledges his own heritage, even shouting out emphatically, "My name is Frankenstein!" . Frederick offers the sight of "The Creature" following simple commands to a theater full of illustrious guests. The demonstration continues with Frederick and the Monster launching into the musical number "Puttin' on the Ritz", complete with top hats and tails. Although the monster can only shout his song lines in painfully high-pitched monotones, he dances impressively with almost perfect timing. The routine ends disastrously, however, when a stage light explodes and frightens the Monster, who becomes enraged, pushes Frederick, and charges into the audience, where he is captured and chained by police. The Monster escapes, then kidnaps and ravishes the not unwilling Elizabeth when she arrives unexpectedly for a visit. Elizabeth falls in love with the creature due to his inhuman stamina and his enormous penis . The townspeople hunt for the monster. Desperate to get the creature back, Frederick plays the violin to lure his creation back to the castle. Just as the Kemp-led mob storms the laboratory, Frankenstein transfers some of his stabilizing intellect to the creature who, as a result, is able to reason with and placate the mob.  The film ends happily, with Elizabeth married to the now erudite and sophisticated Monster, while Inga joyfully learns what her new husband Frederick got in return during the transfer procedure .{{plot}} Book editor George Caldwell  travels from Los Angeles to Chicago for his sister's wedding aboard a train called the Silver Streak. As the trip begins, George meets a vitamin salesman named Bob Sweet  and has dinner and drinks with a woman named Hilly Burns . Hilly works for Professor Schreiner, a well-known art historian who is on a publicity tour for his new book on Rembrandt. After dinner, George and Hilly go to her room for a night of romance. Meanwhile, three men kill Schreiner. A few minutes later, George sees Schreiner's body hanging outside Hilly's window as it falls from the roof of the train, but George is drunk and Hilly insists it must be his imagination. In the morning, he sees Schreiner's photograph on the cover of his book, which Hilly has with her, and recognizes him as the dead man. George also finds an envelope inside the book. The men who killed Schreiner are Johnson , who bears a resemblance to Schreiner, a crook named Edgar Whiney , and a thug named Reace . When George goes to Schreiner's room, Whiney answers the door and has Reace throw George off the train. George walks to a farmhouse and meets an old lady, Rita Babtree, who flies him to the train's next stopping point in a de Havilland Tiger Moth biplane. Now back on the train, he sees Hilly dining with art dealer Roger Devereau , and begins to suspect her when Devereau, Whiney, and Johnson enter her room, with Johnson impersonating Schreiner. Devereau apologizes to George for the misunderstanding involving Reace. Johnson  mentions "the Rembrandt letters", then expresses his desire to return to his room for a glass of scotch to soothe his nerves. George, embarrassed, goes to the club-car and begins drinking heavily. Devereau then smacks Hilly in the face for all her trouble. Later, a drunken George confides in Sweet about his misadventure. Sweet confirms George's suspicions about the professor's murder . Sweet reveals to George that he is actually an undercover federal agent named Stevens and that Devereau is a wanted criminal who passes himself off as a wealthy art dealer and expert. Whiney, Reace, and Johnson are Devereau's henchmen. According to Schreiner's book, two paintings that Devereau authenticated as original Rembrandts are actually forgeries. Devereau plans to have the professor's imposter botch an upcoming lecture, thereby discrediting the book. George recalls the envelope he saw inside Schreiner's book, and the two men go to Hilly's room, where they find the envelope containing letters written by Rembrandt himself, proving Devereau's guilt. Stevens is killed by Reace immediately after this discovery, and George is knocked off the train by an overhanging signal pole after killing Reace in a rooftop shootout with a speargun. . Now on foot again, George tries to notify the local sheriff , but is instead accused of Sweet's murder. Forced to escape, he steals a patrol car in which he meets small-time thief Grover T. Muldoon . Working as a team, George and Grover make their way to Kansas City to meet the train. Police are looking for George, so Grover disguises him as a flamboyant black man. The ruse works; they are able to avoid capture and board the train. Back on the train again, George and Grover separate to find and rescue Hilly. George is knocked unconscious by Whiney and taken to Devereau's room along with Hilly. Devereau plans to frame George for the murder of the professor, then have them both killed, but Grover enters the room disguised as a waiter and holds Devereau at gunpoint. After a shootout, George and Grover jump off the train and are arrested and taken to a small abandoned train station, where Federal agent Donaldson  explains that the police were only trying to protect George and that he planted the Sweet murder story. George tells Donaldson about Devereau's plan, and Donaldson orders his men to prepare for an attack on the train. He then contacts the railroad to have the Silver Streak make an emergency stop at a nearby rail junction for a routine investigation. Meanwhile, Devereau burns the Rembrandt letters, and he and his henchmen prepare to escape. Once the train has stopped and the passengers have disembarked, a shootout ensues. George and Grover jump onto the train as Devereau orders an engineer to start it moving again. An agent shoots Whiney, George shoots Johnson, and Devereau shoots the engineer and places a toolbox on the dead man's brake pedal. Devereau is then shot by Donaldson, becomes stuck hanging out of the locomotive's cab, and is decapitated by an oncoming train. With Devereau and his men gone, George, Hilly, and Grover think they will exit the train at the last stop, but because of the toolbox on the dead man's brake pedal, the train becomes a runaway. Devereau also had his men disconnect all the emergency brakes cables, making it impossible to stop the train. George uncouples the passenger cars from the engine, while the people at the Chicago train station are instructed to evacuate. The engine roars into the station, jumps the tracks and thunders through the terminal, destroying everything in its path as people flee, and the passenger cars gently coast to a stop behind it. Grover steals a sports car that was on display in the station lobby and drives away, and George and Hilly kiss and begin their relationship anew.The heroine separates from her husband and lives as a single working mother. Enter into the life of the heroine two men who want to marry her. The film takes a lot of interesting twists that keeps the viewer gripped. This movie is a super hit. It ran for 150 days.At Appleyard College, a girls' private school, near the town of Woodend, Victoria, Australia, the students are dressing on the morning of St. Valentine's Day, 1900. Miranda , Irma , Marion , Rosamund , waifish Sara , and outsider Edith  read poetry and Valentine's Day cards. The group prepares for a picnic to a local geological formation known as Hanging Rock, accompanied by the mathematics mistress Miss Greta McCraw  and the young and beautiful Mademoiselle de Poitiers . On the authority of the stern headmistress Mrs. Appleyard ([[Rachel Roberts , jittery teacher Miss Lumley  advises Sara that she is not allowed to attend. Driven by buggy operator Ben Hussey , the party pass through and arrive at the Rock by mid-afternoon. After a meal, Mr. Hussey notes his watch has stopped at the stroke of twelve, as has the watch of Miss McGraw. With permission from Mlle. de Poitiers, Miranda, Marion and Irma decide to explore Hanging Rock and take measurements, with Edith allowed to follow. The group is observed several minutes later by a young Englishman, Michael Fitzhubert , who is lunching at the Rock with his uncle Colonel Fitzhubert , aunt Mrs. Fitzhubert , and valet Albert . At the top of Hanging Rock, the group lies on the ground, apparently dazed by the sun. Miss McCraw, still at the base of the Rock, stares up. Miranda, Marion, and Irma awake and move, as if in a dream, into a recess in the rock face. Edith screams and flees down the Rock. The distraught and hysterical party eventually returns to the College, where Mlle. de Poitiers explains to Mrs. Appleyard that Miss McGraw has been left behind. Sara notes the absence of Miranda; and Mr. Hussy explains to Mrs. Appleyard that Miranda, Irma, Marion, and Miss McGraw went missing. A search party, led by Sgt. Bumpher  and Constable Jones  of the local police, finds nothing, although Edith reveals that she witnessed Miss McGraw climbing the Rock without her skirt. Michael Fitzhubert is questioned and reveals he watched the schoolgirls but can provide no clues as to their whereabouts. Michael becomes obsessed with finding Miranda; and, with Albert, he conducts another search of Hanging Rock. Despite Albert's protests, Michael decides to remain overnight and begins climbing again the next day, leaving a trail of paper. When Albert follows the markers, he finds a nearly delirious Michael. Just before leaving on a buggy with a local doctor, Michael passes to Albert a fragment of lace from a dress. Albert returns to Hanging Rock and discovers Irma, unconscious but alive. The residents of Woodend become restless as news of the discovery spreads. At the Fitzhubert home, Irma is treated for dehydration and exposure, and tells the police and Mlle. de Poitiers she has no memory of what happened. A servant notes that Irma's corset is missing but is advised by Mrs. Fitzhubert that it is not important. Michael befriends the recovered Irma but alienates her when he demands to know what happened on the Rock. Mrs. Appleyard advises Miss Lumley that several parents have withdrawn their children from the school. Before leaving for Europe, Irma visits her classmates a final time; but they become hysterical and demand to know what happened to their missing friends. Mlle. de Poitiers intervenes; and, as Irma flees, she also notices that Sara has been strapped to a wall by Mrs. Appleyard to correct her posture. That night, Miss Lumley gives notice to a drunken Mrs. Appleyard that she is resigning. Mrs. Appleyard tells Sara that, as her guardian has not paid her tuition, Sara must return to the orphanage. The next day, Mrs. Appleyard lies to Mademoiselle de Poitiers and claims that Sara's guardian collected her early that morning. The next day, Sara's body is found in the greenhouse by Mr. Whitehead, the school gardener. Believing Sara committed suicide by leaping from her bedroom window, Whitehead confronts Mrs. Appleyard, who is calm in full mourning dress with her possessions packed. Michael tells Albert he has decided to travel north, with Albert revealing he had a dream in which his lost sister Sara visited him. During a flashback to the picnic scene, Sgt. Bumpher states in a voice over that the body of Mrs. Appleyard was found at the base of Hanging Rock and that the search for the missing school girls and their mistress continued sporadically for several years without success.Newcastle-born gangster Jack Carter  has lived in London for years in the employ of organised crime bosses Gerald and Sid Fletcher . Jack is sleeping with Gerald's girlfriend Anna  and plans to escape to South America with her. But first he must return to Newcastle and Gateshead to attend the funeral of his brother Frank, who died in a purported drunk driving accident. Not satisfied with the official explanation, Jack investigates for himself. At the funeral, Jack meets with his brother's teenage daughter Doreen  and Frank's mistress Margaret , who is evasive. Jack goes to Newcastle Racecourse seeking an old acquaintance called Albert Swift  for information about his brother's death. Swift evades him, but Jack encounters another old associate, Eric Paice , now employed as a chauffeur, although he will not say for whom. Tailing Eric to the country house of crime boss Cyril Kinnear , Jack bursts in on Kinnear playing poker. He meets a glamorous but drunken woman called Glenda . Having learned little, Jack leaves. Eric warns him against damaging relations between Kinnear and the Fletchers. Back in town, Jack is threatened by henchmen to leave town, but he fights them off, capturing and interrogating one to find out who wants him gone, and is given the name Brumby. Jack knows Cliff Brumby  as a businessman with controlling interests in local seaside amusement arcades. Visiting Brumby's house, Jack discovers the man knows nothing about him; believing he has been set up, he leaves. Next morning, two of Jack's London colleagues arrive, sent by the Fletchers to take him back, but he escapes. Jack meets Margaret to talk about Frank, but Fletcher's men are waiting and pursue him. He is rescued by Glenda driving a sports car, who takes him to meet Brumby at his new rooftop restaurant development atop a multi-storey car park. Brumby identifies Kinnear as Frank's killer, explaining Kinnear is trying to take over his business. He offers Jack £5,000 to kill the crime boss, which he refuses. Jack has sex with Glenda at her flat, where he finds and watches a pornographic film. The participants are Doreen, Glenda, Margaret and Albert Swift. Doreen is forced to have sex with Albert. Overcome with emotion, Jack becomes enraged and half drowns Glenda as she is the bath. She tells him the film was Kinnear's and she thinks Doreen was 'pulled' by Eric. Forcing Glenda into the boot of her car, Jack drives off to find Albert. Jack tracks Albert down in a betting shop. Albert confesses that he told Brumby that Doreen was Frank's daughter. Brumby showed Frank the film to incite him to call the police on Kinnear. Eric and two of his men arranged Frank's death. Information extracted, Jack fatally knifes Albert in the stomach. Jack is attacked by the London gangsters and Eric, who has informed Fletcher of Jack and Anna's affair. Jack shoots one of them dead; Eric and the others escape, pushing the sports car into the river, with Glenda trapped inside. Returning to the car park, Jack finds Brumby, beats him senseless and throws him over the side to his death. He then posts the porn film to the Vice Squad at Scotland Yard in London. Jack abducts Margaret at gunpoint. He telephones Kinnear in the middle of a wild party, telling him he has the film and making a deal to give him Eric in exchange for his silence. Kinnear agrees, sending Eric to an agreed location; however, he simultaneously phones a hitman to dispose of Jack. Jack drives Margaret to the grounds of Kinnear's estate, kills her with a fatal injection and leaves her body there; then he calls the police to raid Kinnear's party. Jack chases Eric along a beach. He forces Eric to drink a full bottle of whisky as he did to Frank, then beats him to death with his shotgun. As Jack is walking along the shoreline, he is shot through the head by the hitman with a sniper rifle.The Grandview is a sprawling Californian hotel with a terrible secret: single blonde visitors who check in don't check out. Hotel detective Rick Stewart ([[David Bailey  begins investigating what's happened to a handful of vanishing guests but he soon becomes personally involved when his brunette ex-wife, Lisa James , arrives for a singing engagement at the hotel. When Lisa dons a blonde wig for her performance, she finds herself the next target of a psychopathic killer.The theme of romantic despair and shallowness is displayed utilizing a La Ronde-like circle of sexual adventures and failed affairs centered around songwriter Carroll Barber, played by Keith Carradine, which spread out through the city. Barber is an aloof womanizer who cannot commit or love and is used by Alan Rudolph to illustrate the loneliness inherent in big-city life. The film features a continual score by Richard Baskin, present throughout, and features among its cast Sally Kellerman as a lonely real estate agent, Geraldine Chaplin, as a Valley housewife addicted to taxi rides, Lauren Hutton as the mistress of a wealthy man , Sissy Spacek as a southern housekeeper, and Harvey Keitel as a troubled business man. Carradine's character is a songwriter of mediocre talent, who is nonetheless supported financially, with enthusiasm, by his wealthy father Denver Pyle. An inveterate womanizer, he has affairs with Kellerman, the real estate agent who found his apartment, and whose husband, a successful businessman, covets their maid . He also beds Chaplin, the wife of Keitel, who is the C.O.O. of his dad's successful dairy business. Keitel fancies Kellerman. He also includes his father's mistress  among his conquests. Kellerman sends her maid, Spacek, to clean his apartment, which she does "topless." However, despite this, theirs is the only male-female relationship in the film which is platonic, and although weird, in the context of this story, the most "normal."Transylvania, 1979 -- Hard times have fallen upon the house of Dracula and to help pay the taxes on the ancestral castle, it has been converted into the Hotel Transylvania. The manager of the hotel is the beautiful and sensuous Nocturna , granddaughter of the original Count  who still resides in the crypt deep in the sub-basement of the establishment. In order to increase business and the supply of fresh blood at the hotel, Nocturna books the American disco group Moment of Truth to entertain in the hotel's cabaret, The Claret Room. While listening to the group rehearse their music, Nocturna experiences strange sensations which she has never felt before. At the same time, she is attracted to a handsome musician in the group named Jimmy . Soon they are having a passionate love affair, but the music that plays as they make love prevents her from making him another victim of her vampire's blood-lust. The music continues the strange transformation of Nocturna who sees her reflected image for the first time while dancing . Deeply in love with Jimmy, she disregards grandfather Dracula's advice, and runs away to America with him. When they arrive in New York she leaves the disappointed Jimmy and seeks out the crypt of Jugulia Vein , an old love of Count Dracula's, who lives underneath the Brooklyn Bridge. Nocturna goes to a disco to meet Jimmy where she is transformed a gain by the soul-stirring powers of the music and all the other dancers join them in a fantastic erotic dance. Meanwhile, back at Jugulia's crypt, Count Dracula has appeared with his henchman Theodore , and has placed Jugulia under a spell forcing her to disclose the whereabouts of Jimmy's apartment. He orders his henchman to bring back Nocturna and to do as he wishes with her human lover. Theodore, who is hopelessly in love with her, captures Nocturna and brings her back to Jimmy's apartment tied inside a black bag. Theodore is about to take Jimmy's blood when Nocturna manages to rip through the bag, bear her fangs and pounce upon the cringing Theodore. Theodore drags his broken body back to Jugulia's crypt and informs his master that he has failed. Jugulia leads them to the disco hoping to change Count Dracula's mind when he sees how happy his granddaughter is. However the Count is infuriated when he sees Nocturna dancing with Jimmy. He places him under his evil spell -- as well as all of the dancers in the disco. To save her lover's life, Nocturna agrees to leave with her grandfather and return to Transylvania. Jugulia, a romantic at heart, releases Jimmy from his trance. He is determined to risk his life to save Nocturna and rushes out of the disco. Before Count Dracula can destroy him, he rips an electrically lit "T" from the sign of the disco and advances towards the infamous vampire with his improvised cross. Count Dracula shrieks in horror at the sight, transforms himself into a bat and flies off to the safety of Transylvania. Jugulia, who has other plans for the Count, also transforms into a bat and flies after him. Nocturna feels that she is human now and decides to watch the sunrise for the first time. Although they both realize it may mean her death, they stand in each other's arms awaiting the first rays of sunlight. The sun's rays illuminate Nocturna's anxious face. She smiles a warm human smile at Jimmy, and they tenderly kiss.A sexually frustrated woman  asks her friend Helen  for advice on how to achieve an orgasm. After a sex party provides no help, Helen recommends that Linda visit a doctor . The doctor discovers that Linda's clitoris is located in her throat, and after helping her develop her oral sex skills the infatuated Linda asks him to marry her. He informs her that she can settle for a job as his therapist, performing her particular oral technique—thereafter known as "deep throat"—on various men, until she finds the one to marry. Meanwhile, the doctor documents her exploits while repeatedly having sex with his nurse ([[Carol Connors . The movie ends with the line "The End. And Deep Throat to you all." The 61-minute-long movie is intended to be humorous, with highly tongue-in-cheek dialogue and songs; fireworks going off and bells ringing during Lovelace's orgasms.In Bougival Junction, New Mexico in 1880 the Francophone town is led by Marie Sarrazin. A new family arrives, calling themselves the Millers, but in fact they are the daughters of the hanged outlaw Frenchie King and his eldest daughter Louise seeks to keep her father's name alive by donning men's clothing and continuing his criminal ways. Louise and Maria fight but when they are both jailed they team up to take revenge on the town's men.Crawley, Bébé, p. 231Sally is walking home from school and is acting crabby. She comes home and tells Charlie Brown that she's never going to school again. After her brother asks many questions on why, she says "I can't get my stupid locker open!" The next day Charlie Brown wakes her up telling her to get ready for school. She reminds him she won't go back there, but he tells her he'll help with the situation if she goes. They have breakfast with their beagle, Snoopy, get on the bus and go to school. Charle Brown tells her that some lockers are a little difficult and touchy, and she needs to make sure the numbers are just right. But Sally tells him that's not the problem, the problem is she can't reach it to open it. He doesn't know what to say so Sally brings him into her classroom for something else:to use him as her show-and-tell presentation. After the embarrsaing session for him, Charlie Brown sees a poster that says "Student Body President Election". Linus thinks that would be a good job for Charlie Brown, but Lucy confirms that Linus would be the better candidate. Opposing him is a student named Russell Anderson. Linus runs for the office with a vigorous and enthusiastic campaign, taking an early lead in the polls. Unfortunately, he suffers a setback when, during his last address to the student body, he decides to ad lib a mention of The Great Pumpkin. Nonetheless he wins the election by one vote&ndash;84 to 83&ndash;the deciding vote cast from Russell, who has decided that Linus is, in fact, better for the job. Following his victory, Linus goes to the principal with the intention of keeping his campaign promises and laying down the law, only to be taken aback with the realization that he is still strictly subordinate to the faculty and in fact, like most student government positions, has no real power. Regardless, Sally has a fit and accuses him of selling-out like all other politicians. She then kicks the bottom of her locker and walks away, not realizing that she has finally opened it.Joey Davis  is an unemployed former child star who supports himself as a hustler in Los Angeles. Joey uses sex to get his landlady to reduce his rent, then seduces Sally Todd , a former Hollywood starlet. Sally tries to help Joey revive his career but her status as a mediocre ex-actress proves to be quite useless. Sally's psychotic daughter Jessica  further complicates the relationship between Sally and the cynical, emotionally-numb Joey.On the eve of his wedding, on holiday on the Lake Annecy shore, a career diplomat accidentally meets an old acquaintance, perhaps a former lover. Through her he meets an intense teenager, Laura, and then lusts after her sister, Claire. Whilst Laura attempts to flirt with him, his fantasy becomes focused on wanting to caress Claire's knee.Tyrone Tackett,  travels to Southern California for the funeral of his brother, but becomes involved in the illegal underworld of drugs, prostitution and gambling that his late brother was also caught up in. Tyrone’s brother left behind his young daughter Rochelle Tackett, played by Candy All, and his prostitute wife. Tyrone visits the latter and forces her to buy some nice clothes and attend the funeral, after which she comes over for a drink with Tyrone and her late husband’s close friends. Tyrone meets his brother’s main partner in his car repossession business; Sherwood Epps, played by Sam Law. Sherwood invites Tyrone to stay in town and the two become close friends. Tyrone is threatened the following day by several people who had transgressions against Tyrone’s brother and make it clear that Tyrone should now leave town and head to Oakland if he knows what’s good for him. Tyrone then visits Rochelle Tackett and offers his care and help to her, which she rejects. The film continues on with Tyrone making more acquaintances with his brother’s old friends and enemies until Rochelle is murdered after becoming involved in the pornography industry. Tyrone makes it his main objective for the rest of the film to hunt down and murder all those involved in Rochelle’s death.The plot focuses on a prominent concert pianist, Charlotte Andergast , who has been neglectful and dismissive of her children, whom she has not seen in over seven years. Charlotte decides to make a visit to her eldest daughter, Eva  at her remote house, where she lives with her husband, Viktor . Upon arrival, Charlotte discovers that her other daughter, Helena , who is mentally and physically disabled  is living with and being taken care of by Eva. Wounded by the neglect and selfishness of her mother, Eva begins to spill all of the things she has ever wanted to say to Charlotte, and as the evening progresses, the tension culminates to a wave of harsh words and exposure of true feelings that change their mother–daughter relationship forever.The story involves a fake psychic, Blanche Tyler ([[Barbara Harris , and her con artist taxi driver boyfriend, George Lumley , who attempt to locate the nephew of a wealthy and guiltridden old woman, Julia Rainbird . Julia, one of Blanche's clients, was responsible for her now-deceased sister giving up a boy for adoption years earlier and now wants to make him her heir. She will pay $10,000 if he is found. However, the nephew and prospective heir is now a successful jeweler in San Francisco known as Arthur Adamson , who has a secret and lurid past, having apparently murdered his adoptive parents and faked his own death. He and his live-in girlfriend, Fran , have successfully kidnapped an assortment of millionaires and dignitaries, returning them when the ransom, in the form of a valuable gemstone, has been delivered, each of which they hide in their chandelier. They enlist Maloney , who assisted Arthur in the murder of his adoptive parents, to kill Blanche and George. However, Maloney's effort fails when he drives off a cliff while pursuing Blanche and George. When Arthur learns that Blanche and George are pursuing him, he suspects the worst, putting their lives in danger.Billy Breedlove  is an orderly at a Texas psychiatric hospital. He simultaneously falls under the spell of two people: a blonde waitress at a local diner named Jimmie Jean Jackson  and an allegedly sociopathic hospital patient named Hammersmith , who is restrained in a straitjacket within a locked cell. Hammersmith promises Billy a new life with fame and fortune if he is released from his incarceration. Billy agrees to free Hammersmith, provided that Jimmie Jean can accompany their escape. The three make their way into adventures where Hammersmith murders people and steals property as the means for elevating Billy’s social and financial status. Billy becomes the owner of a topless bar, the owner of a pharmaceutical company, an oil tycoon, the financier of political campaigns and a roving ambassador-at-large for the United States. Over time, Billy comes to loathe Jimmie Jean. However, Hammersmith takes an interest in her and grants her wish that she should be become a mother. Hammersmith arranges for Billy to become disabled in a water skiing accident, and then convinces him to commit suicide. The head of the psychiatric hospital  locates Hammersmith and has him returned to his incarceration – where he begins to promise fame and fortune to another orderly.Overview of “Hammersmith Is Out,” Turner Classic MoviesAlice  offends her would-be lover William  by rejecting his advances. Upset, she falls asleep reading Alice in Wonderland. The white rabbit  appears to her in a dream and takes her into a sexual wonderland. The story loosely follows Carroll's original plot, and includes many of his characters, but with considerable sexual license.The film is set in a small Georgia town in 1948. It follows the adventures of Buster Lane , a handsome, popular high-school senior, who is engaged to be married to his high-school sweetheart Margie Hooks . He is the 'big man on campus' and the leader of his group of friends. Buster, though, is different from these other young men. Buster's friends, being sexually repressed, often visit a girl from an underprivileged background named Billie-Jo Truluck  who dourly gives them what they want. In the meanwhile, Buster becomes disenchanted with Margie's refusal to have sex with him, and begins seeing Billie in secret. In the beginning, he sees Billie just for sex, but eventually finds himself falling in love with her. Buster is so taken with Billie that he decides to break off his engagement with Margie to be with Billie. Billie finds another lease on life with Buster, and they are happy for the first time in their lives. Happiness for them, though, is short-lived. Buster's friends are extremely jealous that they cannot have Billie for their own use anymore, and decide to teach Buster a lesson. They corner Billie one day when she is out, and when she refuses to submit to them, they rape and kill her in the heat of the moment. Buster eventually finds her dead, and is hysterical. He then goes to the pool hall where his friends are, with the guilt evident on the faces of the main perpetrators of the crime. Enraged, Buster kills two of them, while injuring the other two. He is then put into jail for this, but is released. He rips up entire garden beds in the town, and takes these flowers to Billie's graveside in her memory.Julie Roy, a young woman, approaches a maverick attorny, claiming that her psychoanalyst has raped her, and over a period of time used her for sex before discarding her.A young couple, Molly and David Beaton, and their neighbours celebrate Christmas in 1874 on the Dakota prairie. Despite tragedy and an ongoing battle with the Railway company, Christmas is a homespun and overly sentimental affair.An advertising man is tasked by his boss with trying to come up with a sexy new image for porridge. He is also struggling with his chaotic home life, where his wife has become involved in a campaign to "clean up" television.http://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/32589The story begins with a young boy, the eldest son of a poor widow barely able to make ends meet, doing odd jobs along with working at a printing press to provide income to his family and to provide education to his 2 younger brothers and younger sister, sacrificing his own education. He grows up to become Santhanam . Due to his extreme poverty, his lover in the office  ditches him for a rich person and he ends up marrying Lakshmi , a poor girl. Being extremely poor, they could not even feed their children, let alone live comfortably. He keeps getting money from his friend  for almost everything. His younger brothers, having studied and become rich, refuse to help him. His younger sister , for whom Santhanam had spent all his money in order to conduct her marriage, treats him very badly whenever he goes to visit her. He is even fired from his job by his old employer's son who took over the press when the former becomes paralyzed after an accident. Eventually, Santhanam leaves his house as he didn't have money to pay the rent even after selling everything they had and he and his family move to a slum. Here he begins to write stories for a magazine in order to earn money. His wife dies due to a fire in the slum. Slowly he becomes rich as his stories were very popular. The movie ends with Santhanam becoming a famous author, his children being sent abroad for higher education and his younger siblings beginning to treat him with respect.Woody Woodpecker is a student in Mrs. Meany's  class. He arrives late to school, followed by his dog, Alfie. When Alfie follows him into the school building, he is kicked out by Mrs. Meany, who subsequently hits Woody on the hand with a ruler. Upon witnessing this, Alfie becomes angry, and bites Mrs. Meany on the fanny. Woody tries to go after him, but is barred by Meany, because "School's not out yet." Woody gets into trouble several times during the episode, and is disciplined by Meany, who makes him stand in the corner with a dunce cap on. After distracting the class, Meany attempts to discipline him with the ruler again, and is bitten by Alfie. Woody then rings the school bell, declaring recess. Meany chases him across the playground, and after Woody gives her a trick apple , the episode ends with Meany spanking him across her lap.A group of rich tourists and businesspeople fly to a mysterious tropical resort, the Portals of Eden, where they spend their time relaxing and being pampered in paradise, under the resort's host, Seacrist . But suddenly, following a storm after their first night, the guests suddenly find themselves all alone, with dwindling supplies, all communication with the outside world cut, and the resort staff all but abandoning them. At this point, the guests, each of them experiencing personal problems of their own back home, experience various brushes with death.Over a span of nearly 40 years, Gid and Johnny, a pair of Texas farm boys, compete for the affections of Molly Taylor, a free spirit who cares for both of them.During a war between France and the Protestant rebels of La Rochelle, Cardinal Richelieu orders Count de Rochefort to kidnap Constance de Bonancieux. The evil Milady de Winter, who wants revenge on d'Artagnan, seduces him to keep him occupied. He soon discovers her true nature, however, and that she was once married to Athos, who had supposedly killed her after discovering what she was: a branded criminal. Athos, Porthos, and Aramis rescue Constance from her imprisonment in Saint Cloud and take her to safety in the convent of Armentieres. Milady sends d'Artagnan poisoned wine along with a note to trick him into thinking that the other musketeers got drunk and imprisoned. As he goes to bail them out, he is attacked by Rochefort and his men. Athos, Porthos, and Aramis join the fight, at the end of which Rochefort runs away and one of his men is captured and tortured for information, revealing that Richelieu is going to the Dovecote Inn, before he drinks the poisoned wine and dies, revealing Milady's trap. Athos, Porthos and Aramis spies on Richelieu as the cardinal gives Milady orders to "persuade" the Duke of Buckingham not to send a relief force to aid the rebels, threatening him with exposure of the secret of his love affair with the queen, and to kill him if he does not comply. In return, Milady asks for a warrant so she can kill d'Artagnan and Constance, and he reluctantly signs one, wording it in a way so that it does not leave any evidence against him. However, Athos takes the death warrant from de Winter and later tells d'Artagnan of the plot. d'Artagnan sends his servant Planchet to warn the Duke. In England, Milady asks Buckingham not to help the rebels, but he refuses, so Milady tries to assassinate him, but is captured. Buckingham has his servant Felton lock her away in the Tower of London prior to a proposed exile to America, but she seduces Felton and convinces him that Buckingham is his enemy. Felton helps her escape and return to France, and then kills Buckingham before Planchet can warn him. It is not long before La Rochelle surrenders. Now bent on killing d'Artagnan and Constance, Rochefort and Milady, with a force of guards, occupy the convent at Armentieres, and battle the four musketeers when they arrive. While Rochefort and his men hold the musketeers at bay, Milady strangles Constance before being captured by Athos. d'Artagnan duels Rochefort to the death and, despite Rochefort breaking his sword, spears him in the chest, killing him. Milady is sentenced to death by beheading by the four musketeers, and they hire an executioner to carry out the punishment. Right afterwards, they are arrested by the cardinal's guards. Richelieu charges d'Artagnan for killing his two most valuable servants, but d'Artagnan shows him the signed death warrant, which  fully legitimizes d'Artagnan's actions. Utterly defeated and quite impressed at d'Artagnan's achievement, the cardinal gives him a commission for either him or one of his three friends to become an officer. Athos, Porthos, and Aramis turn it down, so d'Artagnan is now promoted to lieutenant of the musketeers.A shy and timid man who lives with his mother buys a plant he thinks talked to him. His loneliness is very apparent in the way he tries to turn the plant into a friend. Well, the plant is carnivorous and can talk with a woman's sexy voice. Henry, the protagonist, now has two joys in life. One is being a voyeur  and the other is his new plant friend. Soon he discovers the plant likes bugs . Eventually the plant wants to try a delicious woman, like in the pictures Henry has hanging in his room. One day, Henry's mother breaks into his room thinking to confront him with a woman and all she can find are Henry and the plant. But soon the plant eats her and discovers that women are really tasty. When detective O'Columbus shows up, the plant discovers she does not like eating men, just women. Eventually the plant experiences urges and Henry finds a male specimen. The male eats men while the female eats women. One woman is willing to end Henry's life of virginity but accidentally gets eaten. Henry is broken and tries to kill himself while the plants get passionate with one another. Henry is too clumsy to succeed and changes his mind when he sees all of the little baby plants.A woman calling herself Evelyn Mulwray  hires private investigator J.J. "Jake" Gittes  to perform matrimonial surveillance on her husband Hollis I. Mulwray , the chief engineer for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. Mr. Mulwray is in the public eye due to his opposition to the proposed construction of a new dam, citing grounds of safety. Gittes tails him and photographs Mulwray with a young woman, Katherine Cross . The photos hit the front page of the following day's paper, and Gittes is confronted by the real Evelyn Mulwray . Gittes realizes he had been duped, and to repair his reputation decides to figure out who was behind the hiring, and why. Gittes goes looking for Mr. Mulwray. Eventually, he finds former colleague Lt. Lou Escobar  recovering Mulwray's drowned body. He suspects he was murdered and investigates further. He learns that huge quantities of water are being released from the reservoir every night, yet the land is almost completely dry. Breaking into the reservoir, he is confronted by water department security chief Claude Mulvihill  with a henchman  who slashes Gittes's nose. Back at his office, Gittes receives a call from one Ida Sessions, the bogus Mrs. Mulwray. She does not identify her employer, but provides a clue: the name of one of "those people" is in that day's obituaries. Gittes learns that Mrs. Mulwray's maiden name was Cross and that her husband was once her father's business partner. Visiting the Department of Water and Power, Gittes learns his name: Noah Cross . Gittes joins Noah Cross at his estate for lunch and Cross offers to hire Gittes to find Katherine, who has been missing since Mulwray's death. Gittes visits the hall of records, where he learns that one of the deceased persons in the obituary column had just bought a huge land tract in the orange grove of the northwest San Fernando Valley. He goes there but is caught and beaten by angry landowners. They explain that agents of the water department have been demolishing their water tanks and poisoning their wells in an attempt to force them out. Gittes reviews the obituary column, noticing that a resident of the Mar Vista Inn, a retirement home, died two weeks earlier, but "bought" acreage in the Valley only one week ago. He deduces that it is a ploy designed not to conserve water for city taxpayers, but to irrigate the rural valley after buying it. Mulwray had presumably realized this, leading to his murder. Evelyn and Gittes bluff their way into the inn and confirm that the real estate deals are done in the name of its residents without their knowledge. After fleeing from Mulvihill and his thugs, they hide at Evelyn's house, where they give in to their mutual attraction and make love. This sours somewhat when Gittes discovers that she has been keeping Katherine hidden from Cross. Gittes gets a mysterious call from Escobar using Ida Sessions's phone and, arriving there, finds Sessions has been murdered. Escobar reveals that the coroner found salt water in Mulwray's lungs, indicating that the body was moved to the freshwater reservoir where it was found. Gittes returns to Evelyn's mansion, where he discovers a pair of men's eyeglasses in her salt water garden pond. Presuming that Evelyn killed Mulwray and that the glasses had been his, Gittes confronts Evelyn about her relationship with Katherine. Gittes slaps her repeatedly until she cries out "She's my sister and my daughter!" and haltingly tells of  sexual abuse by her father at age 15. She adds that the eyeglasses are not her husband's: he did not wear bifocals. Gittes decides to help Evelyn and Katherine escape from Escobar, who now suspects Evelyn of Mulwray's murder, with Gittes as accessory after the fact. Gittes plans for the two women to flee to Mexico through a fisherman client of his, Curly , and instructs Evelyn to meet him at her butler's home in Chinatown. Gittes arranges for Cross to meet him at Mulwray's home. Cross admits he intends to incorporate the Northwest Valley into the City of Los Angeles, then irrigate and develop it. When Gittes produces Cross's bifocals, physical evidence linking him to Mulwray's murder, Mulvihill appears and forces him to surrender the glasses, and to take them to Katherine. When the three reach the hiding place in Chinatown, the police are already there and arrest Gittes for withholding evidence and extortion. Cross approaches Katherine, saying that he is her "grandfather". Evelyn brandishes a small pistol at Cross, and when he is undeterred she shoots him in the arm. As Evelyn speeds away with Katherine, the police open fire, killing Evelyn. Cross clutches Katherine and takes her away, while Escobar orders Gittes released, along with his associates. One of them urges, "Forget it, Jake, it's Chinatown!" . Jake and his associates walk away as Escobar directs the crowd away from the crime scene.The film begins with a meeting between wealthy heiress Linnet Ridgeway  and her close friend Jacqueline de Bellefort . Jackie wants her fiancé, Simon Doyle , to work for Linnet. But he and Linnet have a whirlwind affair and end up marrying. While honeymooning in Egypt, they are continually hounded by a jilted Jackie. In an attempt to get away, the Doyles board a Nile paddle steamer, the S.S. Karnak. When the passengers venture off-shore to examine a nearby temple, a large stone is pushed off a pillar and narrowly misses Simon and Linnet. They again encounter Jackie, who boards the ship and ignores the warnings of detective Hercule Poirot  to stay away, revealing that she carries a small pistol. After a late-night game of cards in the ship's lounge, Jackie confronts Simon. She shoots him in a drunken rage and hits him in the leg. The next morning, Linnet Ridgeway is discovered murdered in her cabin, shot in the head by a similar weapon, with almost everyone aboard the S.S. Karnak having had a reason to want to do away with the heiress. The pistol has meanwhile gone missing.  * The elderly Mrs. van Schuyler  coveted Linnet's jewels. * Miss Bowers , was forced into a life of servitude when Linnet’s father destroyed her family. * The maid, Louise Bourget , was upset because Linnet refused her a promised dowry. * James Ferguson , a Communist, resented Linnet's life of luxury. * Eccentric novelist Salome Otterbourne  faced a libel suit brought by Linnet . * The author's daughter Rosalie  wanted to protect her mother. * American lawyer Andrew Pennington  had embezzled from the Ridgeway family. * Dr. Ludwig Bessner  was upset because Linnet made defamatory remarks about his clinic. * Jacqueline de Bellefort was upset with Linnet for obvious reasons. Poirot admits he found out all this by being a "nasty eavesdropper." Now it’s up to the Belgian sleuth, along with his vacationing friend Colonel Race , who was representing Linnet's British lawyers and investigating Pennington, to solve the mystery.  Jackie is a natural suspect but has a perfect alibi, having been sedated and observed by Miss Bowers all night. Simon Doyle was also unable to commit the crime due to his leg wound. Poirot is convinced someone on deck overheard the argument, removed the gun and used it to kill Linnet. A bundle had been found in the Nile. The missing pistol is wrapped in Mrs. van Schuyler's stole, which was apparently used to muffle the sound of a gunshot and prevent scorching, as seen around Linnet's injury. A handkerchief was also included, stained with red ink, some of which was found in Linnet's pearl nail-varnish bottle. While Poirot and Race conduct their investigation, the maid Louise is murdered. Her throat has been cut with one of Dr. Bessner's scalpels and a fragment of a banknote is found in her hand. Poirot realizes she probably saw the murderer coming out of Linnet's cabin and attempted to extort money in return for her silence. Salome Otterbourne claims to have seen Louise's murderer and is about to tell Poirot when she is shot in the head through an open cabin door with Pennington's revolver, too large to have been used on Linnet.  With several suspects eliminated, Poirot gathers everyone in the saloon, where he reveals the solution — Simon Doyle murdered his wife, with Jacqueline as his accomplice. Poirot reveals that Simon and Jackie were still lovers, and his marriage to Linnet had been cleverly plotted in order to gain her money. They faked Simon's shooting, leaving him free to murder Linnet while the doctor was being fetched by Ferguson and as Jacqueline was attended to by Miss Bowers. Simon was left alone long enough to run to Linnet's room, shoot her in the head, return to the lounge and shoot himself in the leg through the stole - a third shot of which no one was aware. Jackie covered up. She stole the knife and revolver, then killed the maid and Salome Otterbourne. Simon and Jackie point out that Poirot has no proof, so Poirot convinces Simon that his hands could be tested for grains of gunpowder removed with wax. When they realize that they have been found out, they confess, and in a final love embrace, Jackie covertly takes back her pistol and shoots Simon, then herself. Later Poirot says goodbye to the remaining guests, reveals that the test was made-up, and Rosalie and Ferguson announce that they are engaged.{{Plot}} The film opens to an enormous house, inside the house Benjamin Morgan, a rich dying father talking to his oldest daughter Alex. He thinks his second wife, Elizabeth, is trying to poison him. Alex believes him. Benjamin then sends Alex off to pick up her three sisters. While Alex is driving down the road, she stops and asks Benjamin's doctor, Ted Lindsay where the road is. He tells her and comments on the fact that they haven't come to town since their birth mother committed suicide five years ago. Later that night, Alex returns with her three sisters, Frederica a.k.a. Freddie, Joanna and Christine. They park inside the barn. Once inside the house, they meet Elizabeth, who was a convicted murderess. Then their father calls them all inside his room, where he informs them that the sisters should kill her before she kills them. Elizabeth meanwhile, has gone outside in the rain to get something from the barn. She then comes back to the confused sisters, and shows them all their rooms, before making dinner. Joanna wants to leave, while Freddie begins drinking and taking anti-depressants. Christine goes downstairs to make some coffee for Freddie, and finds Elizabeth making tea. Christine then makes Freddie's coffee, noticing Elizabeth's yellow rain slicker, gloves, and boots by the door. Christine gives Freddie the coffee, but she denies, turing back to her vodka and other alcoholic beverages she had brought, talking about their mother and how she never should have died. Elizabeth finishes making dinner and calls for the girls to come down, but before they can eat, Joanna begins to barrade Elizabeth with questions about her first husband's death, accusing her of murder the whole time. Elizabeth silences her, and tells her to watch her mouth or something may happen, while Freddie begins to scream upstairs. The sisters run upstairs, and find Freddie in their mother's old room, clutching a glass of vodka, and holding a piece of glass that is cutting into her hand. She is drunk, and crying showing them a painted picture of their mother, and accusing their father of her suicide, informing them of his many affairs with different women. Alex then accuses Elizabeth of unlocking the door on purpose, as they put Freddie to bed. Later that night, the storm picks up, and Joanna informs Alex that she isn't going to stay, asking for Alex's car keys to drive to the railroad station so she can go home. Alex tries to get her to stay, but she refuses, taking Alex's keys and wishing Christine and Freddie goodbye, telling them to give Benjamin an excuse for her departure. But as she goes out in the rain to the barn to the car, she becomes the victim to a figure in Elizabeth's yellow rain slicker, gloves, and boots, and is stabbed in the back with a pitchfork, falling into the mud. Inside, Elizabeth is making milk and honey for Freddie, to help her sleep, when Christine comes into the kitchen, once again denying the drink. Elizabeth then goes to give Freddie the drink, while Alex watches from Benjamin's room. Freddie won't accept the drink, and keeps drinking, getting into the bathtub for a bath, and passing out. All of a sudden, the same intruder that killed Joanna, grabs her feet and pulls her underwater, where she drowns. The next morning, Christmas Day, Dr. Ted Lindsay shows up to the house, informing Christine that the roads are washed out from the storm, and that he will be popping in and out for a couple of days. Christine then finds Freddie's body and screams, bringing the others into the bathroom, where once again Alex accuses Elizabeth of poisoning the drink she brought for Freddie. Elizabeth informs her that Freddie denied it, and that she drank it herself, and tells them that Freddie had some pills out on the dresser. Benjamin calls up to find out what happened, and Elizabeth informs him that Freddie committed suicide or accidentally drowned, while Christine and Alex put Freddie's body in her bed, before calling the police. Christine goes to call the police only to find that the phone is dead, and realizes that Joanna has the car and they're all trapped in the house. She then decides to go out through the woods to a fellow neighbor's house, and informs Alex, telling her not to tell Elizabeth. Upon traveling through the woods to find the house, Christine notices she's being followed, she starts to panic, and begins running. All the while being chased by the murderer in the yellow slicker, gloves, and boots carrying a pitchfork. She becomes lost and manages to hide beneath a log, watching the killer leave, and making a run for it. Night has now fallen, and the rain is beginning to slow, and Alex is inside Benjamin's room, spotting Elizabeth walking outside with a yellow slicker on. Christine finally makes it to the house covered in mud, and notices that the car is still inside the barn, she goes over to it, and trips over Joanna's dead body half buried in mud. Elizabeth then appears, telling her to come with her, making her scream and run inside the house, where she locks the door, and finding Benjamin's dead body in his bed. Elizabeth then goes to the cellar doors, and crawls inside, going up to the house door, while Christine screams for Alex to come out and escape with her. Elizabeth finally opens the door, and Christine climbs inside a mirrored cabinet, listening as Elizabeth tells her to come out from hiding and leave with her. She then goes outside to find her, and Christine bursts through the front door to get help, running down the road to seek safety. While running from the house, Christine flags down a passing car, occupied by Alex. She tries to tell Alex that everyone's dead and that Elizabeth is the killer, but Alex then informs her that she was actually the killer, and was going to frame Elizabeth. She couldn't deal with the past, so she decided to forget it, by getting rid of her father and sisters, and since Christine was the last one left, she had to die too. She then hits Christine with a crowbar, sending her headfirst down a steep ravine filled with rocks and sticks, looking down and seeing her body crumpled into a heep. Ted then drives by and Alex quickly tells him that Elizabeth went insane and killed everyone, including Christine who went off into the woods. Ted then drives to the house, while Alex drives to the police station, bringing the cops back to the house the next morning. Once she gets there, she tells them where the three bodies are, and goes inside, finding out that they found Christine. She goes into her room, and thinks that Christine is unconscious, until she opens her eyes, then Alex snaps, laughing hysterically, and being dragged away by the cops. All the while Christine watches, crying, from her bedroom, eventually letting Ted take her to the airport, leaving Elizabeth alone to the Morgan farmhouse.Small Change is a comedy with a serious message, based around the daily lives of young children in Thiers, France. Scenes include a baby and a cat perilously playing on an open windowsill, a girl causing confusion with a bullhorn, a double date at the movie theater, a kid telling a dirty joke, a botched haircut, as well as many scenes about school life. Yet throughout this the difficulties and responsibilities faced by children appear, including the ongoing story of a boy's experience of an abusive home. Truffaut gives a message of resilience in the face of injustice, vocalized through one of the teachers. The story ends with a message of hope, the school closing for the summer vacation, and one of the key characters finding his first love at a summer camp. Most of the characters were not professional actors.At the behest of her ultra-conservative fiancé Warren, scatterbrained five-pack-a-day chain smoker and clairvoyant Daisy Gamble attends a class taught by psychiatrist Marc Chabot for help in kicking her habit. While undergoing hypnosis, it is discovered she is the reincarnation of Lady Melinda Winifred Waine Tentrees, a seductive 18th century coquette who was born the illegitimate daughter of a kitchen maid. She acquired the paternity records of the children housed in the orphanage where her mother worked and used the information to blackmail their wealthy fathers. She eventually married nobleman Robert Tentrees during the period of the English Regency, then was tried for espionage and treason after he abandoned her. As their sessions progress, complications arise when Chabot begins to fall in love with Daisy's exotic former self and Daisy begins to fall for him, and his university colleagues demand he either give up his reincarnation research or resign his position with the school. While waiting for Chabot in his office, Daisy accidentally hears a tape recording of one of her sessions; and when she discovers Chabot's interest is limited to Melinda, she storms out of the office. When she finally returns for a final meeting with him, she describes fourteen additional lives, including her forthcoming birth as Laura and subsequent marriage to the therapist in the year 2038.This film tells the story of friends and former competitors in the world of ballet, as well as the daughter/godchild of one of the women who is starting a career in ballet of her own. DeeDee  left the ballet school after becoming pregnant with the child of another ballet dancer, Wayne . The two settled down to raise a family and co-run a ballet studio in the suburbs of Oklahoma City. Emma  stayed and eventually became a prima ballerina with the American Ballet Company . When the company finally comes back to town, the two reunite. The reunion stirs up old memories and affects the present. DeeDee's daughter, Emilia , is invited to join the company at Emma's request. Emilia starts an affair with a big-name Russian ballet defector and ladies' man, Yuri . Emilia's brother Ethan is offered two ballet scholarships, but is unsure to pursue a career between ballet and baseball. He accepts one scholarship. Also, an old male friend of DeeDee's, a composer and conductor named Rosie is getting to know her all over again. Soon, the two are having an affair. Meanwhile, it looks as if Emma's day in the sun is coming to an end. For years, Michael has been asking Emma to marry him despite his marriage. By now as it looks as though she's ready to accept now that the company's forcing her to retire, he decides to stay with his wife. Old friends and DeeDee eventually enter into major conflict, as DeeDee resents it that Emma acts as a foster mother to Emilia even though she had abandoned the idea of family life by pursing a career in ballet, while Emma feels that DeeDee is jealous of the success that Emma has had as a dancer. Emilia also suffers when she sees how Yuri carries on relationships with other girls. Eventually, misunderstandings are settled, with Emma and DeeDee settling their differences and Emilia and Yuri becoming a stable couple with Emilia deciding to pursue a career in ballet.Dr. Susan Wheeler  is a surgical resident at Boston Memorial Hospital. Wheeler is devastated when her best friend is pronounced brain dead and ends up in a coma after minor surgery at the hospital. Looking at the records, Susan finds that over the previous year a number of other fit young people have ended up the same way. She comes across two similarities to the cases: they all took place in the same operating theatre , and all the comatose bodies were moved to a remote facility called the Jefferson Institute. She continues to investigate, increasingly alone, starting to wonder if she can trust even her own boyfriend, Dr. Mark Bellows . Eventually she discovers that the Jefferson Institute is a front for black market organ sales, where the patients organs are sold to the highest bidder. Boston Memorial is in on this, purposely inducing comas in patients whose organs match those of potential buyers. The patients are rendered brain dead via covert carbon monoxide poisoning, through a pipe that leads from the basement to the OR. Susan's investigation then reveals the mastermind behind all of it - Dr. George Harris  , Chief of Surgery, who she has been confiding in all along. Dr. Harris tries to stop Susan from exposing the truth, and attempts to render her brain dead with carbon monoxide in operating room eight, under the pretext of performing a appendectomy. However Dr. Bellows, now having realized the truth as well, manages to find and disconnect the pipe before it can poison Susan. The movie ends with Susan awake, being wheeled out of the operating room holding Dr. Bellows hand. Meanwhile Dr. Harris stands defeated in the operating room, as two police officers wait outside to arrest him.In 17th-century Hungary, recently widowed Countess Elisabeth Nádasdy discovers that her youthful appearance and libido can be temporarily restored if she bathes in the blood of young women. She enlists her steward and lover, Captain Dobi, to help with the kidnap and murder of countless local girls, whilst having another sexual affair with young Lt. Imre Toth. As a cover for her crimes while in her rejuvenated state, she takes the identity of her own daughter; but castle historian Fabio grows suspicious. Eventually she kills a prostitute called Ziza and it doesn't help, Dobi finds Fabio who has a chapter about blood sacrifices and tells Elisabeth the truth in return for being allowed to live, he says only a virgin sacrifice will work. She then kills more virgins. Fabio tries to tell Toth the truth about his lover, but Dobi kills him before he can. He then shows Toth Elisabeth to jade him away from her. Elisabeth forces Toth into marrying her but her daughter Ilona arrives home, Elisabeth grows old again and tries to kill her daughter but kills Toth instead. Elisabeth, Dobi, and her maid are sentenced to death for their crimes and are last seen awaiting the hangman in their cell. In the last scene a peasant curses her as "devil woman" and "Countess Dracula".The Rolf family takes a vacation from the cityThe specific city is not identified in the film. at a large Victorian era mansion in the California countryside. The family consists of Marian , her husband Ben , their young son David , and their elderly aunt Elizabeth . The owners of the house are the Allardyce siblings, brother Arnold and sister Roz, played by actors Burgess Meredith and Eileen Heckart, respectively. The Allardyces appear at the beginning of the film when they inform their new tenants of a particularly odd requirement for their rental: that the Allardyces' elderly mother continues to live in her upstairs room and the Rolfs provide her with food during their stay. The siblings explain that the old woman is obsessed with privacy and will probably not interact with them, so meals are to be left outside her door. As it turns out, this task falls to the mother who quickly succumbs to the allure of the ornate house and its period decor. Various "accidents" occur during the summer, including the suspicious death of Aunt Elizabeth. As the film progresses, Ben becomes increasingly depressed and anxious while Marian becomes increasingly obsessed with the house, the old woman in the attic, and all of the Victorian artifacts. It gradually becomes clear that Marian is somehow being possessed or controlled by the house and that a malevolent force is slowly consuming the family. As Ben readies his family to leave the house, Marian decides to go back inside to tell Mrs. Allardyce that they are leaving. After she fails to return to the car Ben goes inside to get her, but cannot find her. Ben decides to confront the elderly Mrs. Allardyce whom he has not seen face to face. Ben is horrified when he finds that his wife has somehow become the old woman in the attic, or perhaps always has been. Ben is thrown from an attic window, landing on the windshield of his car. In shock, David runs toward the house and is killed when one of the chimneys falls on him. When the house is fully rejuvenated and glistening like new, the voices of the Allardyce siblings are heard marveling at the house's beauty and rejoicing over the return of their mother. The house is shown to be filled with pictures of various people, many from years past, some more recent - including those of Ben, David and Aunt Elizabeth.A middle aged writer of pornographic novels Scott  meets and falls in love with a sixteen year old school girl  whilst living in London. When Scott is refused a permanent visa to remain in Britain, the couple get married and move to America where by state law Lola must go to school. Tensions arise when Lola wants to engage in sixteen-year-old pastimes, while Scott struggles to complete his novels in order to earn a living.The film is about the customers and personal lives of Greet  and Nel , two female prostitutes in Amsterdam. Greet and Nel are friends and live on different floors of the same canal house at the Prinsengracht. In this house they also receive customers.  Greet roleplays the customers' sexual fantasies. These incidents are recounted in the form of anecdotes throughout the film. The roleplaying involves Greet being a wigged witch, a schoolteacher, a feathered chicken, a corpse, a woman commanding her cleaner, and a surgeon. Sometimes Nel assists her by playing a part in the roleplaying.  Nel lives with Sjaak , a guy who likes fishing and who lives on Nel's money. Nel and Sjaak are continuously fighting. Greet convinces Nel to respond to a personal ad. The following blind date in a restaurant ends up in throwing cakes. Nel wants to clean her dress and then she meets Bob  and they fall in love. In another fight Sjaak almost kills Nel with a knife and Nel decides to move in with Bob in Eindhoven. Bob turns out to be boring, and Nel visits Greet in Amsterdam. Nel doesn't want to work as a prostitute anymore, and she turns out to be pregnant. Nel and Bob marry in Amsterdam, and all of Nel's former colleagues pretend that she worked as a seamstress.  Greet meets the married man Piet  in the bar where she hangs out. Piet takes her to a striptease club, and they have sex afterwards at her house. Unlike the other men, he doesn't have to pay. Piet brings Greet a bouquet of red roses. The next time they meet, they create a romantic atmosphere and Piet stays over night with Greet. Later, Piet takes Greet to a classical concert. She dislikes it and makes a scene in the concert hall. When Piet finds out his wife is pregnant he stops seeing Greet. In the end of the film they meet again and Greet says he should name his child "Greet" if it is a girl. The film ends when Greet makes the customer that plays the cleaner clean up Nel's marriage party.Four New Jersey girls set off to New York City to see the Beatles' Ed Sullivan show: Rosie Petrofsky  is in love with Paul, and wants to meet him in person; Grace Corrigan , is certain that if she can get some exclusive photos of The Beatles, her career as a photographer will be secured; Pam Mitchell ([[Nancy Allen , is about to get married and wants to have one last night of fun before her wedding; and Janis Goldman  believes that the Beatles "undermine artistic integrity", and tags along to protest their music. They are aided by Larry Dubois  – their "chauffeur" – and tough guy Tony Smerko , who is annoyed that the Beatles are supplanting American acts on the charts and on the radio, but who tags along, just the same.The film opens at a mid-1950s press conference, where scenes are shown for an upcoming film starring Nina , a popular screen celebrity. While on her way to the conference, Nina looks at herself in an ornate mirror, which triggers a flashback to her arrival in Rome, when she was 19 years old. Her cousin, Valentina  has arranged for her to work as a chambermaid in a dilapidated hotel. In the course of her duties, Nina meets an ailing, eccentric Senora Contessa Sanziani , who was once the toast of Europe. The Contessa receives a visit from her husband, Count Sanziani , from whom she has been estranged for 40 years. Old quarrels are revived and Sanziani leaves the hotel, sadly telling the manager that he does not wish to be informed if anything should happen to his wife. After having a discussion with Nina, the Contessa decides to take her under her wing and turn her into a lovely and sophisticated woman. Nina is troubled by a birthmark on her forehead, but the Contessa assures her that someday important men will be eager to press their lips to it. One evening, the Contessa summons Nina to her room and shows her a scarlet sari an Indian ambassador had once given her. She insists that Nina undress and places the sari on her. The Contessa then cuts Nina's long, dark hair and puts makeup on her and transforms the maid into a beautiful woman. Nina tells the Contessa she wishes she could be just like her, but the Contessa says that is a silly desire. While listening to the Contessa's stories, Nina imagines herself living out the Contessa's existence, triggering a series of fantasy sequences, all set in elaborate settings like casinos and Venetian palazzos. On a rare day off from work, Nina explores Rome and begins to sense the wonderful possibilities that may lay in store for her. That evening, while she is performing a task for the Contessa, the latter suffers a mental breakdown. The manager of the hotel, angered by the Contessa's wailing, insists that she must leave the hotel within a few days. The next morning, Nina seeks help from Mario , a frustrated screenwriter who lives in the hotel. She has brought with her some of the Contessa's old stock certificates, hoping that Mario will be able to determine their worth. Mario tells her the certificates are worthless and that he feels no pity for the Contessa. Nina reacts angrily and leaves his room. Later on, Nina goes to a bank and finds that Mario was very nearly right. Most of the certificates are indeed worthless. But one, from the Bank of Congo, is worth a small fortune: ₤150,000 lire. She uses part of this money to help pay the Contessa's hotel expenses. That same day, Nina goes to a restaurant to pick up the Contessa's dinner. A screen director, Antonio Vicari  sees Nina in the restaurant and asks Mario, who is writing a screenplay for him, to introduce him to the young woman. The introduction is made, and arrangements are made for Nina to have a screen test. Before she leaves for the studio, she finds that the Contessa has abruptly checked out of the hotel to find an old flame, Gabriele d'Orazio . The Contessa is no longer thinking clearly; she hurries into the street and is hit by a car. She is taken, unconscious, to a Catholic charity hospital. Meanwhile, Nina has difficulties with her screen test, until Mario gets her to talk about the Contessa. Her subsequent show of passion impresses Vicari, who decides he wants Nina to star in his next picture. Nina hurries off the set, and after a search, she and Mario locate the hospital where the Contessa is under Sister Pia's  care. Nina is taken to the Contessa's bedside, but the old woman has just died. Deeply saddened, Nina takes the Contessa's ornate mirror as a remembrance and leaves the hospital. The film jumps forward to the present time. Nina has become a motion picture star. She arrives at the press conference. As she steps out of her limo, a girl hurries up and says she wants to be just like Nina when she grows up.A couple proceeds with the purchase, and moves in. George appears not to be strong of faith, but Kathy is at least a nominal Catholic. The couple turns to Father Delaney to bless the home. Father Delaney  encounters troubles in trying to bless the home, including a room full of flies, out of season, violent stomach sickness, and later, blisters on his palm when trying to make even a phone contact with Kathy at the home. In his further efforts to confront the evil, he suffers a car wreck from brake and steering malfunction, a lack of support by his superiors in the diocese as he describes the occult things he's seen, and ultimately, blindness and a mental breakdown. It is most moving when he is at the altar of the church, praying, "Give them strength of mind and body, that they may do Your will," and a high-mounted statue begins to crumble and drop dust down in the chancel area. Refusing to run, he continues the prayer at a scream, "Oh, Lord, give them strength of mind and body, that they may do Your will!" weeping at the seeming triumph of evil over good. After this, we are shown Father Delaney, sitting in an outdoor garden area, in a totally unresponsive state. Presumably, his mind is gone. George begins to be more sullen and angry over perceived cold in the house, and obsesses with splitting logs and keeping the fireplace stoked. One of the two boys suffers a crushed hand when a sash window falls on it, and the little girl has an imaginary friend, Jody, who seems to be of a malevolent nature. Mom, Kathy, catches a glimpse of two red, swine-like eyes, outside the daughter's 2nd story window. The family dog, Harry, a black Labrador, obsesses over a secret room in the basement. George's land surveying business begins to suffer with his lack of attendance, and his partner is concerned. The business partner's wife, very sensitive to the paranormal, is at once both repulsed and intrigued by the things she feels when at the house. "Boy are these vibes ever strong!" she says at one point. The Lutz's witness a black, bubbling substance coming up in the toilets, an "ooze" coming down from nail holes in the walls, a babysitter being trapped in a closet despite its not having a locking doorknob, the disappearance of $1,500.00 cash, and Kathy's aunt, a nun, running from the house and vomiting. Kathy observes George's persistant waking at 3:15 am, feeling he must go check on the boathouse, and other unsettling incidents. Kathy has nightmares in which she is given details about the killings of the home's prior family. Their research at the library and at the county records office suggest that the house is built atop a tribal burial ground, and that a known devil worshiper named Ketcham had once lived on the land. Finally, the paranormal events drive the family to flee the house one night, in the pouring rain, no longer even worried about their possessions. The final titles tell us that, "Today the Lutzs live in another state."Respected liberal Senator Joe Tynan is asked to lead the opposition to a Supreme Court appointment and he finds himself struggling with his own morality and the corruption surrounding him. He falls for a lovely lady attorney and has an affair that jeopardizes his marriage, and possibly, his career.Henry Tawes is an aging sheriff in small-town Tennessee who is becoming bored with his wife Ellen and his life. He meets young Alma McCain and is drawn to her, even though she isn't even half his age. Alma seduces him, then persuades Tawes to provide protection for her father Carl McCain, who makes moonshine whiskey with an illegal still. Tawes obliges her until a federal agent, Bascomb, turns up. He obeys orders and destroys the still. A deputy, Hunnicutt, suspects that Tawes and the young woman are romantically involved. When he tries to take Alma by force, Hunnicutt is killed by the McCains. Tawes helps dispose of the deputy's body. He decides to take off with Alma and start a new life in California, but finds to his surprise that she and her family have already left. Tawes pursues them, assuming Alma still wants to be with him, but she has other ideas.Danielle Breton  is a model and would-be actress hired to play a blind-woman on a TV show. She meets a contestant on the show, advertising salesman, Philip Woode , and the two hit it off. He invites her to dinner. At the restaurant, they are interrupted by Danielle's ex-husband Emil Breton ([[William Finley , but Philip has him thrown out. Later, Danielle and Philip go to her apartment and are followed by her ex-husband. To avoid Emil, Philip pretends that he is leaving for good and then returns through the back door, opening the door with Danielle's keys. Philip and Danielle have sex on the sofa. The next morning Danielle wakes up, feeling unwell. She takes one of three red pills left in her medicine cabinet, leaving the other two on the corner of the sink. When Philip uses the bathroom, he accidentally sweeps the two pills down the drain. Philip overhears Danielle and her sister Dominique fighting and arguing about him. Danielle says she isn't feeling well, and would asks Philip to go for her pills at the pharmacy. Philip complies and on the way buys a cake for Danielle & her twin sister Dominique, who is visiting for their twin birthday. Philip returns to the apartment and unlocks the door with Danielle's key again. As they are about to share the birthday cake, Danielle stabs him to death. Philip tries to get the attention of the neighbor across the causeway, trying to write HELP with his own blood in the window. The neighbor, Grace Collier , a journalist who often criticizes law enforcement in her columns, contacts the police. Detective Kelly  arrives, and does not believe her story, treating her dismissively. Meanwhile, Danielle wakes up confused and dazed. She has tried to talk to her doctor, who promises to bring her more of the red pills. When Emil arrives at the apartment he discovers the corpse. It is also revealed that he is her doctor. Danielle tell him that Dominique was there and Emil helps her clean the apt, putting the corpse inside the sofa-bed. Emil leaves and takes the bloodied knife away. When Detective Kelly and Grace appear, the apartment is in order except for a red stain on the back of the sofa. Danielle justifies her double sets of clothes by explaining that her job as model requires them in case one becomes stained. Grace finds the cake in the fridge which provides her the opportunity to prove that there are twins living in the apartment. She falls, however, smashing the cake. Emil appears, saying that they he and Danielle are separated but not yet divorced. Detective Kelly tells Grace not to disturb him or Danielle again with this situation. The only clue Grace has is the name of the bakery where Philip bought the cake. Grace learns from her mother, Mrs Collier , there is a new open-door psychiatric hospital in town. But Grace is not listening to her, too focused on the bakery clue. When they arrive at the bakery, Grace jumps asks the shop assistants, , and is told a black man bought the cake for Danielle and Dominique. Grace hires a private detective, Joseph Larch , telling him that the women in the apartment are twins. But the detective finds no twins - only what he believes may be a hiding place for the body: the sofa-bed. Casing the apartment, they watch the sofa being loaded into a moving van. Grace gets in touch with a Time magazine reporter, Arthur McLennen  who studied the case of the Blanchion twins, the first set of Canadian conjoined twins. In a news item, Grace sees Dr. Pierre Milius - Emil's younger persona - talking about the delicate psychological mental equilibrium of one of the twins. As teenagers, Danielle is shy but Dominique is talkative and outgoing. McLennen, having bribed one of the nurses, learns that the Blanchion twins were separated in a surgical procedure but Dominique did not survive. Meanwhile, Larch follows the moving-van with the sofa-bed as Grace follows Danielle to the hospital sight. There, she overhears a discussion between Emil and Danielle who says she is fed-up with the doctor's control. Grace observes the doctor attempting to subdue Danielle forcibly and tries to call for help but is prevented by a hospital staffer. An insane patient Arlene  appears and delays Grace, saying that viruses and bacteria going through the telephone made her ill. Emil tells Jansen, a hospital attendant , that Grace is a new patient, Margaret, who should be put in a room. Grace tries to explain her dilemma but no one believes. Emil hypnotizes her so that she will believe everything was a strange dream. Grace appears in the dreams where episodes of Danielle & Dominique's lives are played out. Danielle's desire to be surgically separated from Dominique began to increase when she fell in love in Emile. Dominique's grew jealous and resentful, fueled by her literal separation anxiety. Grace barely wakes, finding herself next to Danielle in the hospital. Danielle says that she wants Dominique back but is afraid of her sister's rage toward Emil. Emil claims that whenever he tried to make love to Danielle, Danielle assumed Dominique's persona, furious and enraged. Danielle, unable to escape her past, refuses to believe Emile, who shows her the knife used to kill Phillip Woode earlier. She cuts Emile with a scalpel and he bleeds to death trying to kill her. Grace, witness to the whole thing, screams in horror when she fully awakens and sees Danielle hugging the dead Emil. Emil's body is taken. Danielle denies killing him or Phillipe but also states that her sister died last Spring. Grace Collier is taken away, dazed and confused. Later, Kelly tries to talk to the recovering Grace. Danielle has confessed to killing Emil, but he admits that they have problems figuring out the identity of the mysterious black man. However, Grace is still under the influence of Emil's hypnosis and denies seeing a murder or a corpse. The shrouded sofa appears in a derelict train with Joseph Larch keeping watch.While visiting Switzerland, an American college professor, Adam, keeps running into a divorced British secretary, Patricia, wherever they go. First their cars collide. Then they smash into one another on a ski slope, each breaking a leg. In between numerous quarrels, the two develop lust and love. They hastily marry, but the disagreements continue. Patricia decides to leave, so Adam decides to fake a suicide. They lose and find each other, again and again.Jeanne  plays a modern-day Don Juan-styled woman who prides herself in the destruction of men that have fallen for her charms. She reveals to a priest a murder she committed and frankly details her past sexual encounters.Don Juan Rotten Tomatoes. Retrieved on 21 August 2010The film features Harvey Keitel as a pianist who also works for his loan shark father as a "collector". He is a conflicted soul, torn between his art, his loyalty to his father, his sexuality, and his past.Like the play, the film tells the story of a gay couple – Renato Baldi , the manager of a Saint-Tropez nightclub featuring drag entertainment, and Albin Mougeotte , his star attraction – and the madness that ensues when Renato's son, Laurent , brings home his fiancée, Andrea , and her ultra-conservative parents  to meet them.Montpellier: December 1976. At the funeral of Bertrand Morane, Genevieve  observes the other mourners, all women once involved with him. The following is told in flashback. Morane , a man in early middle-age, works in a laboratory testing the aerodynamics of aircraft, and pursues women in a compulsive, but casual manner without showing any signs of a capacity for commitment. He goes to extraordinary lengths to locate a woman he had seen, only to discover she was briefly visiting France and lives in Montreal. Bertrand becomes friendly with Hélène , who runs a lingerie shop, but she confesses to being attracted to younger men; she is forty-one, and does not become involved with men older than thirty. He has an affair with Delphine , the wife of a doctor, who gains arousal from the threat of discovery, but she is imprisoned for the attempted murder of her husband. He recollects his childhood and his relationship with his distant mother, remembering her legs in shots reminiscent of the frequent leg shots of women in the film. He pretends to have a child in need of baby sitting in order to lure a young woman to his apartment. When she discovers the doll he has put in his bed in place of a baby and asks him what this is, he replies, "It's me". After a number of very casual encounters, Bertrand contracts gonorrhea, discovered at a very early stage, but is unable to recollect the names of the six women he has slept with in the previous twelve days. Eventually, he begins his autobiography only for his typist to find the content too much to continue. Completed, it is submitted to the four leading publishers in Paris. A member of the editorial staff at one of them, Genevieve, stands up for the work against the objections of her  colleagues. Rejecting his title for the book, she suggests The Man Who Loved Women, which he finds ideal. Bertrand meets Véra , a significant old flame, while the book is at the proof stage, and insists on withdrawing the book from publication because he had neglected to mention her. Genevieve though persuades him to make Véra the subject of his second book; he needs to like himself she says. By now, Genevieve has fallen in love with him, in spite of recognizing his personality flaws, but he is hit by a car while rushing to follow two women with attractive legs. Admitted to the hospital and forbidden to move, he sees nurses in his doorway and, attracted by their legs, accidentally severs his drip, falls out of his bed, and dies. At the funeral, Genevieve speculates on the other women's relationship with Bertrand, she does not speak to them, and reflects that it is only herself who knows the ending.In 1931 Berlin, American artist Sally Bowles  performs at the Kit Kat Klub. A new arrival in the city, Brian Roberts ([[Michael York , moves into Sally's boarding house. A reserved English academic and writer, Brian gives English lessons to earn a living while completing his doctorate in Philosophy. Sally unsuccessfully tries to seduce Brian and suspects he may be gay. Brian tells Sally that on three previous occasions he has tried to have physical relationships with women, all of which have failed. The unlikely pair become friends, and Brian is witness to Sally's anarchic, bohemian life in the last days of the German Weimar Republic. Later in the film, Sally and Brian become lovers despite their earlier reservations, and Brian and Sally conclude with irony that his previous failures with women were because they were "the wrong three girls." Sally befriends Maximilian von Heune , a rich playboy baron who takes her and Brian to his country estate. It becomes ambiguous which of the duo Max is seducing, epitomized by a scene in which the three dance intimately together in a wine-induced reverie. After a sexual experience with Brian, Max loses interest in the two, and departs for Argentina. When Sally triumphantly tells Brian that she slept with Max, Brian begins to laugh and reveals that he slept with Max as well. After the ensuing argument, Brian storms off and picks a fight with a group of Nazis, who beat him senseless. Brian and Sally make up in their rooming house, where Sally reveals that Max left them an envelope of money. Later on, Sally finds out that she's pregnant and is unsure whether Brian or Max is the father. Brian offers to marry her and take her back to his university life in Cambridge. After a scene that strongly hints Sally prefers the life of a singer to the life of a mother and housewife, she proceeds with an abortion. When Brian confronts her, she shares her fears and the two reach an understanding. The film ends with Brian departing for England by train, and Sally continuing her life in Berlin, singing "Cabaret" to a highly appreciative audience.  {{original research}} A subplot concerns Fritz Wendel , a German Jew passing as a Christian. Fritz eventually reveals his true religious background when he falls for Natalia Landauer , a wealthy German Jewish heiress. Although they marry, the audience are left wondering what their fate will be. The Nazis' violent rise is a powerful, ever-present undercurrent in the film. Though explicit evidence of their actions is only sporadically presented, their progress can be tracked through the characters' changing actions and attitudes. While in the beginning of the film National Socialist members are sometimes harassed and even kicked out of the Kit Kat Klub, a scene midway through the film shows everyday Germans rising in song to rally around National Socialism, and the final shot of the film shows the cabaret's audience is dominated by Nazi party members. While he does not play a role in the main plot or subplot, the "Emcee"  serves in the role of storyteller throughout the film, acting as a sort of voyeur in the circus atmosphere. His surface demeanor is one of benevolence and hospitality , but when the floor show gets underway, he exposes the audience to the seedy world of the Cabaret. His intermittent songs in the Kit Kat Klub are risque and pointedly mock the Nazis. In a scene when Sally experiences delirium, the Emcee is seen holding her breasts - the significance of this is never explained, and it is not clear if it is memory or fantasy. The rise of the National Socialist movement and their increasing influence on German society is dramatically demonstrated in the beer garden scene: A boy — only his face seen — sings to the seated guests what first seems an innocent lyrical song about the beauties of nature. This gradually becomes the strident "Tomorrow Belongs to Me" as the camera shifts to show that the boy is wearing a brown Hitler Youth uniform and lifts his hand in the Nazi salute. One by one, nearly all guests in the beer garden get up and voluntarily join in the singing and saluting. The oldest gentleman among them, however, obviously feels differently, and does not share the common exaltation; he obviously has grown wise enough not to join the chorus and turns away uneasily. Max and Brian flee the beer garden after the show of grass roots solidarity, realising that the Nazis will be difficult to "control" now. Earlier in the film the NSDAP enjoyed relative favor with the main characters, due to their strong opposition to Communism, which was a natural risk to the trio's increasingly lavish lifestyle. Although the songs throughout the film allude to and advance the narrative, every song except "Tomorrow Belongs to Me" is executed in the context of a Kit Kat Klub performance. The voice heard on the radio reading the news throughout the film in German was that of associate producer Harold Nebenzal, whose father Seymour Nebenzahl made such notable Weimar films such as M , Testament of Dr. Mabuse , and Threepenny Opera .When four children Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy stumble into an old Wardrobe they find themselves in a magical land called Narnia with talking animals, fauns, hags, the Wicked White Witch and the great lion Aslan. There they meet the friendly Mr and Mrs Beaver, who help them on their quest to find Aslan the great lion. Only he can help save Edmund and Lucy's friend Mr Tumnus  from the White Witch.Duddy Kravitz  is a brash, restless young Jewish man growing up poor in Montreal, Canada. His taxi driver father Max  and his rich uncle Benjy  are very proud of Duddy's older brother Lenny, whom Benjy is putting through medical school. Only his grandfather  shows the motherless Duddy any attention. Duddy gets a summer job as a waiter at a Jewish resort hotel in the Laurentian Mountains. His hustle, energy and coarse manners irritate condescending college student and fellow waiter Irwin. Irwin gets his girlfriend Linda, the daughter of the hotel's owner, to persuade Duddy to stage a clandestine roulette game. Unbeknownst to Duddy, the roulette wheel is crooked, and he loses his entire $300 earnings to Irwin and some hotel guests. Fortunately for Duddy, the other waiters find out and make Irwin give back the money. Unaware of this, the hotel guests, led by Farber, feel bad and give him a further $500. Duddy starts a serious relationship with another hotel employee, French-Canadian Yvette . One day, she takes him on a picnic beside a lake. Duddy is stunned by the beauty of the setting, and his ambition crystallizes: taking to heart his grandfather's maxim that "a man without land is nobody", he decides he will buy all the property around the lake and develop it. Because the current owners might not want to sell to a Jew, he gets Yvette to front for him. Duddy sets out to raise the money he needs. He hires blacklisted, alcoholic American director Friar  to film weddings and bar mitzvahs. His first customer is Farber, who drives a hard bargain. If he does not like the result, he will not pay. Despite Friar's artistic pretensions, the film is a success, and more orders are quickly forthcoming. However, when a piece of land comes up for sale, Duddy does not have enough money. He begs his father to get him an appointment with his friend Dingleman, "the Boy Wonder," a rich, successful gangster who had equally humble beginnings. Dingleman turns down his request for a loan but later invites him to discuss his scheme on a train to New York. It turns out that Dingleman just wants a dupe to take unknowingly the risk of smuggling heroin, but Duddy gets a loan out of it. On the train, Duddy meets good-natured Virgil  and, ever open to a deal, offers to buy his pinball machines, which are illegal in the United States. When Virgil shows up, Duddy does not have enough money to pay him, so Duddy hires Virgil as a truck driver, even though he has epilepsy. Tragedy strikes when Virgil has a seizure while driving and crashes; he is left permanently paralyzed from the waist down. Duddy is distraught and guilt-ridden. Blaming Duddy, Yvette leaves him to care for Virgil. Duddy becomes alarmed when Dingleman finds out about his lake. When the last piece of property Duddy needs comes on the market, Dingleman bids for it. Desperate, Duddy forges Virgil's signature on a check to buy the land, leading to a final rupture with Yvette and Virgil. Undeterred, Duddy proudly takes Max, Lenny and his grandfather to see his property. When Dingleman shows up to offer to raise the financing for its development, Duddy tells him to get off his land. However, Duddy's grandfather refuses to pick out a plot for his farm; Yvette has told the grandfather what Duddy did to get it.The film covers three days in the life of Hiram Jaffe , a would-be playwright who supplements his living as a porn writer and by walking dogs. He and his wife, Dolly , are moving to a new apartment on New York's Upper West Side. Jaffe is beset by problems, including his inability to persuade the moving man to move the couple's furniture, and retreats into fantasy.The film opens out in deep space, where a race of gelatinous creatures abandon their dying world. Pushed through the universe by the solar winds, they make their way to Earth and land in San Francisco. Some fall on plant leaves, assimilating them and forming small pods with pink flowers. Elizabeth Driscoll ([[Brooke Adams , an employee at the San Francisco health department, is one of several people who brings a flower home. The next morning, Elizabeth's partner, Geoffrey Howell , suddenly becomes distant, and she senses that something is wrong. Her colleague, health inspector Matthew Bennell , suggests that she see his friend, psychiatrist Dr. David Kibner . Kibner suggests that Elizabeth wants to believe that Geoffrey has changed because she is looking for an excuse to get out of their relationship. Meanwhile, Matthew's friend Jack Bellicec , a struggling writer who owns a mud bath with his wife Nancy , discovers a deformed body on one of the beds and calls Matthew to investigate. Noticing that the body  bears a slight resemblance to Jack, Matthew breaks into Elizabeth's home and finds a nearly complete double of her in the bedroom garden. He is able to get Elizabeth to safety, but the duplicate body has disappeared by the time he returns with the police. Matthew realizes that what is happening is extraterrestrial, not realizing that Dr. Kibner has also been changed. He calls several state and federal agencies, but they all tell him not to worry. In addition, people who had earlier claimed that their loved ones had changed seem to have been converted as well. That night, Matthew and his friends are nearly duplicated by the pods while they sleep. The pod people try to raid Matthew's house, but the humans are able to slip away. During this, they discover that the pod people clones emit a piercing shrill scream once they learn someone is still human among them. Jack and Nancy sacrifice themselves to a crowd of pursuing pod people as a distraction, to give their friends enough time to escape. Matthew and Elizabeth are chased across San Francisco, until they are eventually found by the doubles of Jack and Dr. Kibner at the Health Department. Kibner's double tells them that their species is incapable of hating humanity; that what they are doing is the only way for their species to survive and that they are even doing humanity a favor. They are both injected with a sedative to make them sleep. However, the couple is able to overpower them and escape the building. They run into Nancy in the stairwell, who has discovered a way to evade the pod people by hiding all emotion. Outside, Matthew and Elizabeth are exposed as human when Elizabeth screams after seeing a mutant dog with a man's face . They flee, and discover a giant warehouse at the docks where the pods are grown. After Matthew and Elizabeth profess their love for each other, they hear "Amazing Grace" being played nearby. Matthew goes out to investigate, only to discover a cargo ship being loaded with hundreds of pods. Matthew returns to find that Elizabeth has fallen asleep. Although he tries to wake her, her body crumbles to dust and Elizabeth's naked double arises behind him, telling him to go to sleep as well. With no one left, Matthew destroys the pod-growing facility by cutting the overhead lights. Within moments, the entire warehouse is on fire and the unhatched pods begin to die. He is pointed out by Elizabeth's double and hides under a pier while the pod people search for him. The next morning, Matthew watches dozens of children being led into a theater to be replaced. At work he sees Elizabeth, but she is completely oblivious of him. While walking towards city hall, he is spotted by Nancy. Still able to survive after they were caught earlier, she calls his name, to which Matthew responds by pointing to her and emitting the piercing pod scream. With the realization that Matthew is now a pod person, Nancy screams in helpless anguish.This film is a story of a sad romantic girl who has cancer. She tries to hide this from her lover. Her family is unaware of this problem. They care for her.Three friends from Iowa go to California for the summer, rent an apartment together and teach at the same high school. PE teacher Conklin  coaches an all-girl football team despite the opposition of the resident coach , and romances one of the male teachers. Sally  teaches photography and despite being engaged to a man back home, has affairs with an eccentric rock star with a food fetish, and with a male chauvinist teacher who talks her into posing nude for some photos. Chemistry teacher Denise  becomes involved with one of her students, a juvenile delinquent, who is falsely accused of participating in car stealing. Conklin uncovers that funds for sport are being misspent by the school coach . Both she and Sally are suspended but all ends happily with the girl football team triumphant.Anna Vernia, a beautiful young nurse, receives a medal of recognition for her outstanding dedication to her patients at the medical center where she works. She is going out with Victor Sender, a doctor working in the same hospital. Victor is deeply involved in a project that employs electro-shock therapy in violent criminals in an effort to turn them into model citizens. Crime is rampant in the city. There has been a number of unresolved killings of young men which have been attributed to a serial killer believed to be a sadist homosexual. A family is getting ready to watch Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange on television when they are assaulted by a gang of delinquents who knock at their door. The assailants, wearing red helmets, leather biker’s outfits, and handling bull whips smash the modern looking apartment. They rape both husband and wife, but leave the couple’s young son unharmed. After their crime, there is a dispute among the four members of the gang. David, one of them, is beaten up but the leader and is expelled from the group. Anna is a pop art collector. She is the highest bidder in an auction of Alex Raymond’s artwork for Flash Gordon. At the auction she gives her phone number to her bidder rival, Toni, a young man with a handicapped leg. Anna lives alone in a large mansion in the outskirts of the city where Toni comes to see her. After they have sex, Anna listens to Toni’s heart beats while he sleeps and stabs him to death with a surgical scalpel. She disposes of Tony body in a river, but she has been secretly observed by David. He finds out Anna's information through her car’s number plate and begins to follow her. Wearing a wig and dressed matronly, Anna seduces Bruno, a narcissist underwear model, who she has seen previously in T.V commercials. She takes him home and kills him. His body falls next to the book Anna was reading: Vladimir Nabokov novel "Lolita". Although Anna is still going out with Victor she rebuffs his romantic advances. Dressed in drag, Anna enters a gay bar where she picks up, Roman Mendoza, a gay man she takes home. After dancing a waltz Anna proposes to have sex. He is initially hesitant. He thought she was a lesbian. He had never had sex with a woman before, but he is game. While Anna was out, David entered her house after befriending the German Sheppard that guarded her property. Hidden behind curtains David witnesses Anna seducing the young gay man and sees when she stabs him in the heart. Some broken glass inside her house alert Anna about an intruder. When she looks outside she sees David playing with her dogs behind the mansion fence. Anna, pretending to be a maid, befriends David and invites him in. When she is going to star her killing routine, David stops her showing her the surgical scalpel used by Anna to kill her victim. She has been hiding it inside a music box. David does not want to denounce her to the police, but begins to black mail her. Through her monetary transaction David begins to arise Anna's personal interest. David buys a motorcycle with the money, but the members of his former gang, who believed he has stolen a bounty from them, pursues him, leave him badly beaten. David is taken to the hospital where Anna works. Because he has a violent criminal past victor wants to experiment on him the electro-shock therapy used to turn killers into “useful citizens”. Anna is moved when she finds out that David is now her patient. She is not going to allow Victor to use David for his experiments. At night on New Year's Eve Anna reads a poem by Edgar Allan Poe to David. When Victor arrives he finds Anna covered in David's blood after killing him. In another room, the criminal patients in Victor's experiment go berserk, savagely killing each other.With the aid of Louise , owlish Brewster  constructs a pair of human-size wings in his Houston Astrodome nest to realize his dream. Meanwhile creeps, including a witchy "Star-Spangled Banner"-belting crone  and Brewster's skinflint boss , keep turning up dead and covered with bird droppings. The Houston Establishment calls in blue-eyed, turtleneck-wearing, "San Francisco super cop" Frank Shaft  to investigate. Brewster cooks his goose, when he defies Louise's edict against sex and hooks up with Astrodome usher Suzanne . She impressed him  by out-driving Shaft in her Road Runner. Despite her sweetness, Suzanne will not compromise her comfortable home to choose flight with Brewster.  The film opens with the MGM logo, as usual, but with the voice of Rene Auberjonois saying, "I forgot the opening line," replacing the lion roar.Hollywood Lost and Found - Studio Logos - MGMIn 1932 Texas, Wilma McClatchie  takes over her late lover's bootlegging business, but it isn't lucrative. She meets up with a bank robber, named Fred , who invites her and her two daughters in on his next big heist. After meeting a refined-yet-dishonest gambler , Wilma recruits him along with Fred and her daughters to kidnap the daughter of a millionaire in the hopes of getting rich off the ransom.Three young women &mdash; Kelly MacNamara , Casey Anderson , and Petronella "Pet" Danforth  &mdash; perform in a rock band, The Kelly Affair, managed by Harris Allsworth , Kelly's boyfriend. The four travel to Los Angeles to find Kelly's estranged aunt, Susan Lake , heiress to a family fortune. Susan welcomes Kelly and her friends, even promising a third of her inheritance to her niece, but Susan's sleazy financial advisor Porter Hall  discredits them as "hippies" in an attempt to embezzle her fortune himself. Undeterred, Susan introduces The Kelly Affair to a flamboyant, well-connected rock producer, Ronnie "Z-Man" Barzell , who coaxes them into an impromptu performance at one of his outrageous parties . The band is so well-received that {{nowrap}} becomes their Svengali-style manager, changing their name to The Carrie Nations and starting a long-simmering feud with Harris. Kelly drifts away from Harris and takes up with Lance Rocke , a high-priced gigolo who pursued her with designs on her inheritance. Harris fends off the aggressive attentions of porn star Ashley St. Ives , but after losing Kelly weakly allows Ashley to seduce him. Ashley soon tires of his uptight nature and inability to perform sexually due to increasing drug and alcohol intake. Harris descends further into heavy drug and alcohol use, leading to a drug-addled one-night stand with Casey which results in pregnancy. Casey, distraught at getting pregnant and wary of men's foibles, has a lesbian affair with clothes designer Roxanne , who urges her to have an abortion. Petronella has a seemingly enchanted romance with law student Emerson Thorne . After a meet-cute at {{nowrap}} party, they are shown running slow-motion through golden fields and frolicking in a haystack. Their fairy-tale romance frays when Pet sleeps with Randy Black , a violent prize fighter who beats up Emerson and tries to run him down with a car. A drunk Harris challenges Lance to a fight. After Lance beats him severely, Kelly ends her affair with Lance. Susan Lake is reunited with her former fiancé Baxter Wolfe ([[Charles Napier . The Carrie Nations release records and continue to perform successfully, despite constant touring and drug use. Upset at being pushed to the sidelines, Harris attempts suicide by leaping from the rafters of a sound stage during a television appearance by the band. Harris survives the fall but becomes paraplegic from his injuries. Kelly devotes much time to caring for him. Emerson forgives Petronella for her infidelity. Casey and Roxanne have a steamy, intimate romance. But this idyllic existence ends when {{nowrap}} invites Casey, Roxanne, and Lance to a psychedelic-fueled party at his house. After revealing he has female breasts and trying to seduce Lance, who spurns him, {{nowrap}} goes on a murderous rampage: he beheads Lance with a sword , stabs his servant Otto ([[Henry Rowland  to death, and shoots Casey and Roxanne, killing them. Responding to a desperate phone call Casey made shortly before her death, Kelly, Harris, Pet, and Emerson arrive at {{nowrap}} house and try to subdue him. Petronella is wounded in the melee, which ends in {{nowrap}} death. After a preachy, satirical voice-over monologue during scenes of Kelly and Harris  hiking on a log over a creek &mdash; which Roger Ebert credits to Russ Meyer's "sick sense of humor"{{Cite quote}} &mdash; the film ends with the wedding of three couples, Kelly and Harris, Pet and Emerson, and Susan and Baxter Wolfe, with Porter Hall observing from outside the court house window.Glenda Jackson plays Vicky Allesio, a divorced mother of two. George Segal plays Steve Blackburn, a married father who 'has cheated on his wife once... in the same town.' After sharing a taxi together Steve invites Vicky to tea, and then lunch, where he takes Vicky up to a hotel room, hoping to have sex. Vicky admits that she would like to have uncomplicated sex, but isn't impressed by the setting, wanting somewhere sunny. Steve arranges a trip to Málaga. Steve's wife Gloria turns up just as they are about to go, with Vicky travelling as his 'mother', and in turn he arranges and cancels tickets on the plane for his wife, children and in-laws. Once at the airport however Steve bumps into Walter Menkes,  an American movie producer. Unable to admit that he's with Vicky, Steve spends the flight next to Walter, and Vicky sits elsewhere. On arrival in Málaga, Steve ends up giving the last decent car to Walter to get rid of him, and takes instead an Italian car with an awkward clutch, which he has trouble driving to Vicky's discomfort and annoyance. Once at the hotel, they end up struggling up several flights of stairs in order to find a decent double room. Once settled the atmosphere becomes awkward, as both argue over their respective sides during sex. Eventually Steve is persuaded to just get on top of her, but turns suddenly and causes a spasm in his back. A doctor is called and Steve is put to sleep, while Vicky sleeps on top of the bedding. In the morning, Vicky bumps into an American lady and her children, Patty  while shopping for her son. She invites Vicky to dinner, but Vicky sharply declines. When Steve finally wakes up Vicky is sunning herself in a bikini on the balcony. The two finally have sex. Getting dressed after, Steve is disappointed in Vicky's lack of enthusiasm about their sex, and becomes angered. During a game of golf after Vicky becomes offended by Steve's need to beat a local boy, who has bet with him while playing. As the tension mounts between them, Vicky decides to go to dinner with Patty and Steve arranges dinner with Walter. When they arrive separately, Vicky discovers Patty is Walter's wife and the two are forced into an uncomfortable dinner with the couple. Steve becomes offended when Vicky is amused that Steve's daughter is fat and has crooked teeth. After an argument in the bedroom, Steve and Vicky decide to head back to London. Steve decides not to bother reserving any plane tickets, and as they get to the airport the last two tickets have gone. Returning to the hotel, they begin to fight and attack each other in the hotel room. Steve grabs Vicky on the bed, almost ripping her dress off. Pulled onto the bed, Steve tries to have sex with her, but can't undo his trouser zip. Vicky responds 'my god, my one chance to be raped, and you can't get your bloody trousers off.' The two collapse laughing and their relationship blossoms over the remainder of the holiday. Walter and Patty notice their blossoming relationship, and Walter confides to Steve that he had a similar holiday romance. Walter warns that it won't work out, because he won't be able to leave his wife and kids. Steve decides that he still wants to see Vicky when they get back to London and they get a secret flat together, in a building occupied by 'French' prostitutes. Doing it up together, Steve ends up finding secret opportunities to meet her. Steve takes the dog for a walk to go join her, and on going home, forgets the dog. On another occasion he sneaks out during an opera, and comes back wearing golf socks, claiming his kids must have mixed his stuff up. Gradually, the relationship becomes more complicated, as it seems that Vicky is going to a lot of effort to be with him. Steve comes around for sex after a baseball game in the park, and has to leave in a hurry, without staying for coffee. Leaving, he gets flowers and takes them back to her, finding her in the kitchen eating a large meal she'd cooked for the two of them. He leaves without saying anything. Vicky later cancels lunch with him, which Steve's co-workers have noticed, as his secretary asks if he is having a 'short lunch or a long lunch.' He arranges to meet with her in the evening, despite having a very heavy workload, forgetting that he is attending the theatre with his wife. When his wife then calls demanding to know why he is late for the Harold Pinter play, he tries to call Vicky, but is unable to reach her. Vicky sees Steve and Gloria at the theatre together as she is out shopping for the meal she is cooking. When Steve eventually turns up at their flat, he tells Vicky he's been working late, but she confronts him about the theatre. Eventually she breaks down and sits quietly at the table, concerned that she is 'beginning to sound like a wife.' The next morning Steve sends a telegram to the flat for Vicky, telling her that it is over between them. However, on returning home later he changes his mind, and runs out the door. Vicky, however has been given the telegram, which he thought had been cancelled, and begins packing her belongings to leave. When Steve gets to the flat, having bought food to cook for them, he finds a record playing and Vicky gone. Looking out the window he sees her standing at the bus stop. He bangs on the window to get her attention but she doesn't seem to notice and gives up waiting for a bus. She walks along and hails a taxi, which another man hails down in an echo of Vicky and Steve in the beginning of the film. Vicky asks the man, who is handsome and smiles, if he is married. When he says yes, Vicky walks off and leaves him the taxi.The film explores the life journey of a womaniser  and his affairs with various women, including those who are married, and tells finally that nothing will last forever except one's own wife's love and others are passing clouds.When summer comes, five young, pretty and penniless women decide to squat at the villa of one of their fathers who's gone for holidays. The girls just want to have fun and the place could looks like heaven for a man who would join in, at first...Drawn to the spectacular south of France to research the late composer Henry Ryman, music student Susan Roberts  encounters his son, drug-addicted Georges  and his eccentric family. Investigating the haunting strains of an unfinished Ryman concerto leads Susan to discover an empty piano… and a brutally savaged mannequin! Georges tells her she’s the lookalike of his lost love. But Susan may not be the only one at the villa with an eerie doppelgänger.In modern-day England, private detective Philip Marlowe  is asked to the stately home of General Sternwood , who hires Marlowe to learn who is blackmailing him. While at the mansion, he meets the General's spoiled and inquisitive daughter Charlotte  and wild younger daughter Camilla . Marlowe's investigation of the homosexual pornographer Arthur Geiger  leads him to Geiger's employee, Agnes Lozelle , and to a man she has taken up with, Joe Brody ([[Edward Fox . He also discovers Camilla at the scene of Geiger's murder, where she has posed for nude photographs, and takes her home safely to a grateful Charlotte. Returning to the crime scene, Marlowe is interrupted by gambler Eddie Mars , who owns the house where Geiger's body was found. Mars's wife Mona hasn't been seen in a while and may have run off with Charlotte's missing husband, Rusty Regan . And due to Charlotte Regan's gambling debts, Mars appears to have a hold over Charlotte as well. Camilla tries to get her pictures back from Brody, who now is in possession of them. Marlowe intervenes but Brody is shot and killed by someone unseen. A man named Harry Jones  comes to Marlowe with a proposition. He is working with Agnes now and she is willing to sell information as to Mrs. Mars' whereabouts. But on the night Marlowe shows up for their meeting, Harry is poisoned by Lash Canino , a hit man who is working for Eddie Mars. Marlowe pays Agnes for the address. He tracks down Canino at a remote garage, where he is overpowered and taken prisoner. Mars' supposedly missing wife Mona is there as well. At a moment when Canino is out, Marlowe persuades her to set him free. In a shootout, he then kills Canino. Camilla Sternwood appears to be grateful to Marlowe, but she ends up pointing a gun at him. Marlowe was prepared for this and had put in blanks. It turns out that the emotionally disturbed Camilla was behind the disappearance of her sister's husband Rusty and that Charlotte had covered everything up with Eddie Mars' help. After confronting Charlotte with the facts, Marlowe tells her to have Camilla hospitalized. He then drives away from the Sternwood residence the same way he came in, hoping that the gravely ill General will never know the truth about his two wicked daughters.The film begins in Paris, somewhere around the year 1902. Claude Roc , a young middle-class Frenchman, meets Ann Brown , a young Englishwoman, and they become quick friends. Ann invites Claude to spend the holidays at her family's mansion, where we meet Ann's widowed mother  and younger sister Muriel . During the holidays, Claude, Ann and Muriel become very close and Claude gradually falls in love with Muriel. Not fully knowing the couple's intentions, both families lay down a one-year-long separation without any contact before agreeing to get married. Claude goes back to Paris when he has many love affairs, and eleven months later he sends Muriel a break-off letter. A despondent Muriel sinks into a deep depression, and upon returning to Paris to defend her sister, Ann falls for Claude. This instigates a love triangle that consumes the threesome for the next twenty years.A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich opens by panning over downtown Los Angeles. The film takes place during the summertime. Benjie  is a likeable but troubled teen. He lives with his mother, named Sweets , and grandmother, named Mrs. Bell . Benjie has several friends and playmates within the neighborhood and his grades at school are above average. He is surprisingly normal and healthy for a teenager. However, in the midst, there is something going on inside Benjie that nobody around him knows or understands. Benjie has deep pain which stems from constantly dealing with the fact that his father left the family and the fallout since his departure. On top of it all, Benjie cannot manage to get along with his mother's new boyfriend, Butler . Benjie deals with the emotional weight by trusting his school friends and building relationships stronger than with his own family. He soon discovers that he is happier with his pseudo-family than what he understands to be his miserable real family. Benjie conforms to the group and his behavior and outlook changes rapidly as he is engulfed by the overwhelming peer pressure. Among Benjie’s buddies are Carwell . Carwell is the one who introduces Benjie to heroin; one day he takes him to the drug dealer’s home, named Tiger . Benjie is hardly a street rat; he has a loving family who is always worrying about his well being. Butler , the new man around the house is equally concerned about Benjie, but often at odds with him only to be sided against by the boy’s mother. Benjie’s life at school is a refuge as he has two caring teachers who look after him. The first, Nigeria  is a hip and bold extrovert, asking his students to learn and recite important facts of black history, which Benjie proves he can absorb information with ease. Benjie’s other influence is Mr. Cohen , concerned that Nigeria’s over-emphasis on African history and desire to rid the school of non-white staff are wrong, a sort of anti-thesis. The conflict between these two polar differences in belief, a tug-of-war over education, history, and white privilege, plays a larger end-game role in the story as we see it unfold before Benji’s eyes. The continued drug use along with the corrupted group mentality soon got Benjie hooked on heroin ultimately crumbling to the merciless drug. The story that follows are the events leading up to a family learning to come to terms with a child who has hit rock bottom and the drastic life changes that have to be made for everyone involved.Rather than a straightforward narrative, the film presents Liszt's life through a series of episodes. At the start of the film, Liszt is caught in bed with Marie d'Agoult by her husband the Count d'Agoult. The Count challenges Liszt to a fight with sabres but Marie begs the count to share her fate with Liszt. The Count then orders his staff to trap Liszt and Marie into the body of a piano, nailing it shut, and then leaving it on railroad tracks. The scene is then shown to be a flashback triggered by the camera flash of photographers backstage before one of Liszt's concerts. Richard Wagner appears and Liszt introduces him to his circle of colleagues including Gioachino Rossini, Hector Berlioz, Frédéric Chopin, and Johann Strauss II. Liszt then pays Wagner to allow him to perform a variation on a theme from Rienzi. At the concert, Wagner is put off by Liszt's crowd-pleasing showmanship at the expense of serious musicianship, which includes adding the melody of Chopsticks to his Rienzi variation. However the crowd, consisting entirely of young screaming girls, go wild at Liszt's performance, storming the stage. Liszt uses Hans to proposition potentially wealthy females in the audience during his performance. One of them is Princess Carolyn, who relays to Liszt her address in Russia. The next scene shows Marie's and Liszt's domestic life plagued by jealousy over his constant touring away from home and his infidelities. At this point they have three children, the oldest being Cosima. Domestic life has also strained Liszt's creativity. Liszt prepares to depart to St. Petersburg to play for the Tsar. Marie threatens to abandon him if he decides to go. Liszt then suggests to Cosima that he would sell his soul to the Devil to be able to compose brilliant music again. As Liszt is leaving, Cosima consoles him that she will pray to God every day so that Liszt will meet the Devil and be able to sell his soul to him. In Russia, Liszt meets Princess Carolyn at her court. She begins to seduce him, offering him the ability to compose the brilliant music he wanted in exchange for total control of his life. In one of the most ostentatious scenes of the movie, Liszt then experiences a hallucination where the women of Princess Carolyn's court assail him but then become seduced by his music which strokes his libido and gives him a 10-foot erection. Carolyn sinisterly observes from afar as the women then celebrate his giant erection with a chorus line. The women then drag Liszt's erection to a guillotine in which Carolyn reveals that the bargain for Liszt's newfound musical prolificity is the forfeiture of his libertinism. The next scene shows Liszt in Dresden during the May Uprising, conflicted about not supporting his friends in the revolt and spending all his time isolated to compose music. Wagner, now a political criminal on the lam, reappears and asks Liszt for money so that he can escape the country with his family. As Liszt tends Wagner's wounds, Wagner secretly drugs Liszt, making him pass out. Wagner then reveals himself to be a vampire who has a mission to write music that will inspire a new German nationalistic movement. He then proceeds to suck Liszt's blood and compose on the piano. Before departing, Wagner leaves him his latest political pamphlet . Liszt and Carolyn travel to the Vatican to get married after the Pope agrees to grant her a divorce from her husband. The wedding is ultimately voided by the intervention of her husband and the Tsar. Furious at the Pope's political impotence, Carolyn threatens to write an anthology on her disagreements with the Church . Liszt then proposes that he will join the Church as an abbot. Liszt's life as an abbot is shown to be disobedient as he is caught in bed with a woman. The Pope then explains that Wagner has seduced Cosima as his wife and has begun to lead a devilish cult organised around his music. He tasks Liszt with travelling to Wagner's castle to exorcise him and return him to the Christian faith or else Liszt will be excommunicated and his music will be banned. Liszt travels to Wagner's castle, where he observes a secret ritual portraying a devilish Jew raping several blonde-haired Germanic nymphs. Wagner then appears with Cosima, dressed in Superman outfits, and sings how "the flowering youth of Germany was raped by 'the beast'" and that a "new messiah" will soon arrive to drive out the beast. At the conclusion of the song, Cosima marches the audience, composed entirely of children, out with a Nazi salute as they chant that they "will be the master race". Liszt confronts Wagner, who is unaware of what Liszt saw, and inquires about his ambitions. Wagner confesses that he has been building a mechanical Viking Siegfried to rid the country of Jews. When Wagner awakens Siegfried with his music, the creature turns out to be crass and slow-witted. Liszt sneaks holy water into Wagner's drink, however the water has no effect on Wagner. Wagner then reveals himself as a vampire to Liszt and threatens to steal his music so that Wagner's Viking can live. Liszt rushes to the piano and plays music that exorcises Wagner, bringing him to near death. Cosima, witnessing Wagner's moribund state, imprisons Liszt and then resurrects Wagner in a Nazi ceremony as a Frankenstein Hitler wielding a machine-gun guitar. Trapped, Liszt observes as Cosima leads Wagner-Hitler to gun down the town's Jews, after which she kills Liszt by stabbing a needle through the heart of a doll made to look like him. In Heaven, Liszt is reunited with the romanced women of his life and Cosima , who regret their behaviour towards him and each other and finally live in harmony. Liszt and the women decide to fly down to Earth in a spaceship to destroy Wagner-Hitler who has now ravaged Berlin in a fiery machine-gun frenzy. Once Wagner-Hitler is destroyed, Liszt sings that he has found "peace at last".A teenage schoolgirl spends the summer with a couple whose marriage is on the rocks and develops a crush on the wife. Meanwhile, she pursues a local teenage boy and tries to find a “suitable male lover” for the wife.http://filmfanatic.org/reviews/?p=133 Although Bilitis can be best described as a coming of age film, the title character, Bilitis, ends up returning to school at the end of the film realizing she is not yet ready for adulthood.A young woman fashion photographer known only as O is taken by her lover René to Château Roissy, where she is subject to various sexual sadomasochistic rituals. She leaves wearing a ring as a sign of her initiation. O meets a model called Jacqueline whilst René introduces O to Sir Stephen H, who was raised as René's brother, and the two men share O. Jacqueline moves into O's flat, and is seduced by her. O is then sent by Sir Stephen to the country house of Anne-Marie where she and other young women are prepared to be branded by Sir Stephen. O's visit concludes with Sir Stephen's inserting rings into her labia and being branded with his initials. Sir Stephen then shares her with two other men, the commander and Ivan. Later Sir Stephen, O, Jacqueline and René visit the commander's home in Brittany for a party and O takes Jacqueline to Roissy. Finally, Sir Stephen confesses to O he would endure the same punishments and she brands his hand with a hot cigar holder, leaving there a circle, or an O.After her prostitute mother and her john are beaten to death while they are asleep in bed, teen-aged Ellie Masters is sent to an isolated orphanage run by Mrs. Deere and her handyman. Taking an avid interest in her welfare is detective Calvin Carruthers. Taking almost no interest at all, is social worker Harold Mullins who is completely under Mrs. Deere's thumb. Lots of unpleasant surprises are in store for Ellie, not the least of which is the fact that Mrs. Deere and her handyman are both brutal sadists, who run the orphanage like a concentration camp and the strong possibility that her mother's hammer-wielding killer is now stalking her.James Mitchell plays Paul Wyler, a successful sculptor best known for sculpting nude young girls. When he encounters an old flame, Sarah , he is so smitten by her beautiful daughter Laura that he asks Sarah if she will pose for him. Sarah, married but still jealous of the fact that her former lover is more attracted to her daughter, tells Paul that Laura is not interested, even though she is actually quite enthusiastic about doing it. As an alternative to live posing, Sarah takes photos of Laura posing nude and gives them to Paul so that he can sculpt Laura. After a fire at an art exhibit, though, Paul goes blind and cannot complete the sculpture. In the end, Laura, when going to say goodbye to Paul, allows him to finish his work by feeling her body and sculpting by feeling. This leads to a sexual encounter between the two, and the next morning Laura's mother comes to take her away.Paul , a middle-aged American hotel owner mourning his wife's suicide, meets a young, engaged Parisian woman named Jeanne ([[Maria Schneider  in an apartment that both are interested in renting. Paul and Jeanne proceed to have an anonymous sexual relationship in the apartment, and Paul demands that neither of them share any personal information, not even their names. The affair goes on until one day Jeanne comes to the apartment to find that Paul has, without warning, packed up and left. Paul later meets Jeanne on the street and says that he wants to start anew with their relationship. He proceeds to tell her of the recent tragedy with his wife and the telling of his life story carries them to a tango bar where he continues telling her about himself. This loss of anonymity disillusions Jeanne about the relationship and she tells Paul she doesn't want to see him again. Paul, not wanting to let Jeanne go, chases her back to her apartment where he tells her that he loves her and finally wants to know her name. Unbeknown to Paul, Jeanne holds a gun that she has taken from a drawer. She tells him her name and shoots him. Paul, mortally wounded, staggers out onto the balcony, collapses, and dies. The audience then sees Jeanne dazed and muttering to herself that he was just a stranger who tried to rape her, reassuring herself that she did not know who he was in a rehearsal for questioning by the police.Jasper Bloodshy  runs the rough-and-tumble town of Bloodshy -- named after him because he founded it -- which lives in fear of Jasper's gunslinging son Wild Billy . Jasper has just found out he has another son named Eli , who lives in Philadelphia. It turns out that years ago, Jasper's crazy ways were too much for his bride from England, so she left -- leaving behind one twin -- and returned to England. With the help of his English butler Mansfield, he writes a new will that mentions Eli, then fakes his death by pretending to fall off a cliff in front of Bloodshy's corrupt mayor Ragsdale  and sheriff The Denver Kid , both of whom he has just told about his second son. We next meet Eli, who turns out to be the opposite of Wild Billy. Eli has been trained to live for the Lord. He works as a Salvation Army missionary in Philadelphia with orphans named Roxanne  and Marcus . One day, during a fight in which people are throwing vegetables at him and the children, Eli receives a telegram informing him about his father's death, a father he didn't know existed. He decides to accept the invitation to come to Bloodshy for his inheritance and take Marcus and Roxanne. Their stagecoach is held up by the Snead brothers, a group of outlaws that Ragsdale has sent to run off Eli. Unfortunately, nobody was told that Jasper's other son was a twin, so they mistake Eli for Wild Billy . The Sneads return to Bloodshy, but did cause the stagecoach to run off, leaving Eli, Marcus, and Roxanne stranded. On their way to Bloodshy , they meet a woman named Jenny  who is also headed for Bloodshy to start a school. They head for the town together. Mansfield brings the will to Sheriff Denver to deliver to Ragsdale. From there, it's learned that a contest is involved in the inheritance. Ragsdale sends Denver to find Billy and tell him that the fortune is his. The contest is a miles-long obstacle course known as the Bloody Bloodshy Trail that involves operating train engines, crossing a gorge using a rope, climbing a mountain, and driving a wagon.The story revolves around the escalating problems of a middle-aged couple living on Second Avenue on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, New York City. Mel Edison, the main character, has just lost his job after many years and now has to cope with being unemployed at middle age. The action occurs during an intense summer heat wave and a prolonged garbage strike, which just exacerbates Edison's plight to no end as he and his wife Edna deal with noisy neighbors, loud sounds emanating from Manhattan streets up to their apartment and even a robbery of their apartment during broad daylight. Mel eventually suffers a nervous breakdown from the whole affair, and it is up to the loving care of his brother Harry, his sisters and Edna to bring Mel back to a firm reality.Elena Scheider  is a prostitute with class who is hired by film producer Adam Baker ([[George Hamilton  to seduce Randy Brent , an actor who is working in Phoenix on his latest film The Last Man. Since the death of his wife, who committed suicide by overdose seven years ago, Randy has retired from the screen and he is now seen as a has-been. The Last Man is his first venture since the tragedy, but he has trouble shooting the love scenes. Elena successfully seduces him and he soon falls in love with her. It does not take long before she moves in with him in his mansion in Hollywood. In Hollywood, she is immediately welcomed by all the insiders, including Randy's celebrity daughter Marina  and wealthy socialite Grace St. George . Elena and Marina become close friends and Marina tells her about her disastrous love life, which exists mainly out of movie producers, who use her for their own gain. The only man she trusts is a man married to a powerful woman. Elena later learns from her masseur Harvey Parkes  that the married man is Adam, whose intimidating wife Nancy  is aware of the affair. It soon becomes clear to Elena that everyone in Hollywood is using each other for their own career. She spontaneously marries Randy in Las Vegas, Nevada and turns to Grace for help to become a Hollywood insider as well, visiting the right parties and wearing the right clothes. Meanwhile, Randy's film is nearing its release. Marty Lesky  is determined on releasing it as a made-for-tv movie, claiming it is too bad for a theatrical release. Elena and Marina try to prevent Randy from fading from the screen again and try to get him his next movie role before the film comes out. Elena seduces Warren Ambrose , a powerful studio owner whose newest project Rogue's Gallery promises to be a huge success. They film makers are reluctant to hire Randy, claiming Robert Redford or Paul Newman are more suited for the role. Warren suggests Elena to talk to Reade Jamieson , the wealthy executive producer. They immediately feel attracted to each other and Reade tells her the man who is casting the roles is Henry Waller , the screen writer. She returns home and catches Randy with Andrew Lyons , a screen writer who wants to cast Randy in his newest project. Elena, furious to find out this way about her husband's sexuality, leaves him. However, when she finds out that he tried to commit suicide later that evening, she takes him back. Meanwhile, Marina finds out Adam is just like any other man, when Nancy reveals that he only slept with her so she would play the female lead in Rogue's Gallery. With the help from Grace, Elena throws Henry a party, but he refuses to come, explaining he will not consider casting Randy. She visits him in his hotel and is successful in seducing home. She spends the night with him, thereby ensuring Randy the lead role. She returns home the next day and splits with Randy after giving him the news. In the end, Rogue's Gallery is a contender for the 51st Academy Awards. Randy and Marina are both very famous again and Elena and Reade are happily married.A Thanksgiving dinner brings a host of family together in a Harlem apartment, where a 24-year-old schoolteacher named Dorothy Gale  lives with her Aunt Em  and Uncle Henry . Extremely introverted, she has, as Aunt Em teases her, "never been south of 125th Street", and refuses to move out and on with her life. While Dorothy cleans up after the meal, her dog Toto runs out the open kitchen door into a violent snowstorm. She succeeds in retrieving him, but finds herself trapped in the storm. A magical whirlwind made of snow{{spaced ndash}}the work of Glinda, the Good Witch of the South – materializes and transports them to the Kingdom of Oz. Upon her arrival, Dorothy smashes through an electric "Oz" sign, which falls upon and kills Evermean, the Wicked Witch of the East. As a result, she frees the Munchkins who populate the playground into which she lands; they had been transformed by Evermean into graffiti for "tagging" the park walls. Dorothy soon meets the Munchkins' main benefactress, Miss One, the Good Witch of the North , a magical "numbers runner" who gives Evermean's powerful silver slippers to her. However, she desperately wants to get home. Miss One urges her to follow the yellow brick road to the Emerald City and find the mysterious "Wizard" who she believes holds the power to send Dorothy back to Harlem. The good witch and the Munchkins then disappear and she is left to search for the yellow brick road on her own. The next morning, Dorothy happens upon a Scarecrow  made of garbage, whom she befriends. The two of them discover the yellow brick road and happily begin to follow it together; the Scarecrow hoping the Wizard might be able to give him the one thing he feels that he lacks — a brain. Along the way to the Emerald City, Dorothy, Toto, and the Scarecrow meet the Tin Man , a turn-of-the-century amusement park mechanical man, and the Cowardly Lion , a vain dandy banished from the jungle who hid inside one of the stone lions in front of the New York Public Library. The Tin Man and Lion join them on their quest to find the Wizard, hoping to gain a heart and courage, respectively. Before the five adventurers reach the Emerald City, they must face obstacles such as a crazy subway peddler  with evil puppets in his control and the "Poppy" Girls , prostitutes who attempt to put Dorothy, Toto, and the Lion to sleep with magic dusting powder. Finally reaching the Emerald City , the quintet gains passage into the city because of Dorothy's ownership of the silver shoes and marvel at the spectacle of the city and its dancers. They gain an audience with the Wizard , who appears to them as a giant fire-breathing metallic head. He will only grant their wishes if they kill Evillene , the Wicked Witch of the West, who runs a sweatshop in the sewers of New York City. She learns of their quest to kill her and sends out the Flying Monkeys  to kidnap them. After an extended chase, the Flying Monkeys succeed in capturing their prey and bring them back to Evillene. She dismembers the Scarecrow, flattens the Tin Man, and tortures the Lion in hopes of making Dorothy give her the silver shoes. When she threatens to throw Toto into a fiery cauldron, Dorothy nearly gives in until the Scarecrow hints to her to activate a fire sprinkler switch which she does. The sprinklers put out the fire but also melt Evillene. With her gone, her spells lose their power: the Winkies are freed from their costumes  and their sweatshop tools disappear. They rejoice in dance and praise Dorothy as their emancipator and the Flying Monkeys give her and her friends a triumphant ride back to the Emerald City. Upon arriving back at the Emerald City, the quartet takes a back door into the Wizard's quarters and discovers that he is a "phony". The "great and powerful Oz" is actually Herman Smith, a failed politician from Atlantic City, New Jersey, who was transported to Oz when a balloon he was flying to promote his campaign to become the city dogcatcher was lost in a storm. The Scarecrow, Tin Man, and Lion are distraught that they will never receive their respective brain, heart, and courage, but Dorothy makes them realize that they already have these things. Just as it seems as if she will never be able to get home, Glinda, the Good Witch of the South , appears and implores her to find her way home by searching within and using her silver shoes. After thanking Glinda and saying goodbye to her friends, she takes Toto in her arms, thinks of home and the things she loves most about it and, after clicking her heels three times, finds herself back in her neighborhood. She, now a changed woman, carries Toto back to their apartment and closes the door.Marie-Louise  is a woman whose love for her ex-husband will not die. The Lawyer Alexandre  left her, because she attended a few leftist marches and demonstrations. While her daughter Laura  falls in love with Marc , Marie-Louise keeps hoping that Alexandre will come back to her. Laura helps her to fight for love and Marie-Louise is so attached to this idea that when her son  finally convinces her that he will never return, the realization has dire consequences.Christine Adams, a cheerful 19-year-old from British Columbia, Canada, travels to Los Angeles to be with her fiance, who works there in a bank. When the relationship doesn't work out, she moves to Las Vegas. She finds work as a showgirl and meets Tommy Marcott, a former pro football player who holds an executive position at the casino, though in truth he is only used as a "celebrity greeter." They fall in love, but when Tommy gives a vicious beating on a golf course to a wealthy casino patron who had beaten and raped Christine, he is fired. They flee Vegas, discussing the possibility that the casino patron will seek revenge, and return to Los Angeles hoping for a normal life; but Tommy is shot by an unknown assailant on a basketball court, likely the anticipated act of revenge. Christine returns to Las Vegas to work as a V.I.P. "party girl' until she is persuaded by wealthy client Morgan to return to Los Angeles to be kept as his mistress. But Morgan is too busy to keep Christine interested in her new life, so she renews a relationship with rocker Jay Rigney, who soon has her turning tricks. The instance we witness involves a tubby older man and a cheap-looking motel room. When Jay runs out on her, Christine drives to a rural airstrip where she promises aifield bum Elroy "some fun" with her to take her up in a plane. Elroy selects a skywriting plane, and offers to write her name in the sky. Christine breaks out a marijuana joint, which they share as Elroy writes "FUCK IT" across the sky of L.A.An executive  tries to wrest his daughter ([[Kathleen Cody  from her childhood sweetheart , of whom he disapproves.The film begins in 1881 at Stavoren, a small town on the outskirts of the Netherlands, and follows the journey of Katie's family to Amsterdam, where they hope to escape the grinding poverty of their native town by finding work in the capital. Upon their arrival Katie manages to secure employment at a dye-works, but is fired when she refuses to have sex with the company director. She manages to find a job at a hat shop, where, during a business trip to a brothel, she discovers her older sister Mina is working as a prostitute. Later that evening, back at the hat shop, she is brutally raped by the owner and, as an act of revenge, smashes the shop window. Weeks go by, during which Katie's father struggles to make ends meet working in a factory and Mina begins a slow descent into alcoholism. While attempting to steal some bread from a market cart, Katie is knocked unconscious by a policeman and taken to a sanitorium. It soon becomes apparent that everywhere she goes her body is her only asset as one of the doctors diagnoses her with tuberculosis, but refuses her treatment unless she sleeps with him. It is unclear whether this occurs, but on her discharge Katie rejoins her family and discovers her father has been made redundant and her sister is too drunk to sleep with her clients. Katie's mother decides that, rather than let the family starve, Katie must go into prostitution. Her first client is a wealthy gentleman, who Katie does not satisfy due to her relative inexperience. When she approaches her second client, an artist called George ([[Peter Faber , he takes her back to his studio to pose for a painting he is working on depicting a Socialist revolution. He pays her the rate they negotiated on the street for her services, but tells her he only wants her to model for him. The next day he introduces Katie to Hugo , a banker, and Andre , a wealthy socialist, and they head to a nightclub for a meal. Katie's social re-education has begun. Andre is immediately attracted to Katie, but she seems more enamoured with Hugo, with whom she goes home and sleeps. That next morning Hugo provides Katie with money to buy herself a new dress and the two arrange to meet in the park. It is here that Katie's former life threatens to catch up with her when the gentleman she approached a few days earlier recognises her and informs Hugo he knew Katie when she only cost fifty pence." Hugo punches him, refusing to believe his story and promises Katie that she can move in with him "forever." Katie goes to see her family, informing them she intends to leave. Her mother asks how she will feed the children if Katie's not there to provide. Katie tells her mother she "should have fucked less" and storms out, kicking her hysterical mother out of the way. Once at Hugo's, Katie settles into the life of the bourgeoisie but is soon troubled at having to go spying on some of Amsterdam's less affluent shop owners to see who Hugo should refuse credit to. After being exposed in a coffee shop and having her face rubbed in hot chocolate as a result, Katie tells Hugo she will not do his dirty work anymore. Very soon Hugo informs Katie that he intends to marry his fiancee and Katie must leave, stressing that their relationship was just a bit of fun that went too far. Katie, with nowhere to go, runs out onto the street and joins in a socialist march. The police arrive to break it up, opening fire on the marchers. During the confusion, Katie is reunited with George and Andre who are also present. Andre is shot in the arm and collapses, hitting his head. George takes them to a carriage waiting nearby and Andre and Katie board it, taking them to Andre's country mansion. Katie stays with him and, when he awakes, it becomes apparent that romance will blossom between the two. They discuss the subject of money, Katie telling Andre that "money turns people into bastards." When Andre's headwound begins to bleed, Katie informs Andre that the best cure is to suck the blood. "That's better," she says, a sliver of blood running from the corner of her mouth. The picture freezes and a roller-caption appears informing us that the film is based on true events from Nell Doff's life and that "her indomitable spirit lives on in this film."Donna Marton has been having an affair with the President of the United States for several months, regularly meeting with him for assignations in a safe house in Washington, D.C.. She is always picked up in a car by a Secret Service agent. In Moscow, an agent in the Kremlin manages to get hold of a secret document identifying Donna Marton as a KGB agent sent to spy on the president. This document is passed back to Washington where it comes into the possession of the CSA . They begin to put Donna Marton under surveillance. The same day, her brother Ben Marton - a Washington businessmen and occasional courier for the CSA - arrived back in the city. On the plane he meets and romances Mugsy Evans. When Donna Marton suddenly turns up dead in her apartment moments before she was due to be picked up by her Secret Service driver, he begins to investigate. He discovers her affair with the President, and through his contacts with the Secret Service, he discovers a CSA agent was seen leaving her apartment building around the time of his death. The Secret Service agent who regularly drove Donna, informs him that the CSA were there, but before any more information can be passed on he is killed. Realising now that the CSA had played a large role in her death, Ben Marton confronts the head of the CSA who tells him it was the Soviets who killed her, and that she was a Soviet agent. He explains that the man who probably performed the deed was the head KGB agent in Washington, Anatoly. Anatoly is the Soviet Naval Attaché who he interrogates at gunpoint in the car. He tells him everything he knows - that the classified document identifying Donna Marton as a Soviet agent was a fake, designed to throw the CSA off-balance, which had always been intended to fall into American hands. The KGB had thus hoped to destabilise the White House during crucial talks with China.Two young bears, Nikomi and Chinook, know nothing of Christmas until the local park ranger tells them about the legend, and they become curious to meet Santa Claus. Their mother, Nana, is preparing for Winter hibernation and cynically tells her children that there is no Santa, but they are determined to believe. Mother finds it impossible to begin their sleep, since the young cubs wish to stay awake until Santa arrives.1960 Baltimore; juvenile delinquent Dawn Davenport ([[Divine , a regular troublemaker at her all-girls school, receives a failing Geography grade and a sentence of writing lines for fighting, lying, cheating, and eating in class. On Christmas morning, Dawn fails to get the cha-cha heel shoes she wants for Christmas. After breaking into a violent rage and pushing her mother into the Christmas tree, Dawn runs away from home and, while hitchhiking, gets picked up by Earl Peterson , a fat man driving an Edsel station wagon. Peterson drives Davenport to a dump, where they have sex on a dirty mattress on the side of the road. When she later finds herself pregnant and demands money from him, he tells her, "Go fuck yourself", which Divine had indeed done by playing both roles. Dawn gives birth to her daughter Taffy and works as a waitress, go-go dancer, hooker, and petty thief—working the latter two jobs with delinquent friends Chicklette ([[Susan Walsh  and Concetta  through the mid '60s. 1968: Taffy  is now eight years old and driving her mother to violence . Dawn complains to Chicklette and Concetta about the demands of motherhood, and they suggest she cheer herself up by getting her hair done by a stylist named Gator , who lives with his morbidly obese aunt, Ida  who constantly pleads with him to "turn queer". Dawn becomes a client of Gator's at the Lipstick Beauty Salon, owned by Donald  and Donna Dasher . Dawn and Gator marry, but five years later, in 1974, their marriage is complicated by the fact that Taffy , now fourteen years old, hates Gator. When Taffy catches her mother and stepfather having sex, Gator suggests she join them in bed, to which Taffy replies, "I wouldn't suck your lousy dick if I was suffocating and there was oxygen in your balls!" Fed up with Gator's infidelities and his penchant for reading magazines while penetrating her with tools such as hammers and pliers, Dawn leaves Gator and starts divorce proceedings. She seeks solace at the Lipstick Beauty Salon, where the diabolical Dashers ask her to be a "glamorous guinea pig" for a "beauty experiment": they want to test Jean Genet's theory that "crime equals beauty". At their behest, Dawn performs several crimes including knocking her daughter unconscious with a chair after a fight during which a narcissistic Dawn happily poses for their photographs. Ida then bursts into Dawn's house and disfigures her face with acid when Gator leaves to pursue work in the auto industry in Michigan. Dawn lands in the hospital and though hideously disfigured, the Dashers and her other friends convince her she's pretty and discourage her from having reconstructive plastic surgery. After leaving the hospital, Dawn returns to find her home redecorated by the Dashers, who've kidnapped and confined Ida to an oversized bird cage. After encouragement from the Dashers, Dawn cuts off Ida's hand. Taffy comes home and after becoming unhinged at the sight of a grown woman in a bird cage with a bloody stump, pleads with her mother to reveal the identity of her real father, which she reluctantly does. Taffy finds her father living in a dilapidated house and drinking excessively. She stabs him to death with a butcher knife after he tries to sexually assault her. Taffy returns home and announces she is joining the Hare Krishna movement. Dawn warns her she will kill her if she does. Dawn, now with grotesque hair, make-up, and outfits provided by the Dashers, creates a nightclub act. Backstage on opening night, Taffy appears after freeing Ida from the bird cage. Upon discovering that Taffy is now a Hare Krishna, Dawn strangles her to death while the Dashers and their minions cheer her on. Dawn performs her nightclub act, which includes jumping on a trampoline and wallowing in a playpen filled with dead fish. She revels in the ideal that beauty is an art form born from crime: {{cquote}} She then yells out, "Who wants to be famous? Who wants to die for art?", and commences shooting into the crowd. Several people are wounded and others are trampled while fleeing the scene. Police allow the Dashers to leave after Donald and Donna claim they are upright citizens caught in a bloody rampage. Dawn flees into a forest but is soon arrested by the police. At Dawn's trial, the Dashers are granted "total immunity" by the judge in exchange for their testimony against her. They claim to be shocked by Dawn's crime spree, although they engineered and encouraged it. Ida testifies against Dawn for kidnapping her and amputating her hand, when actually the Dashers kidnapped Ida and told Dawn to cut off her hand . After Dawn is found guilty and sentenced to die in the electric chair, the Dashers are seen paying Ida for her testimony. In jail awaiting execution, Dawn has a lesbian affair with another prisoner . Dawn tells her lover being executed will make her famous, "like winning an Academy Award". Indeed, when a delirious Dawn is strapped to the electric chair, she gives a speech as if she were winning an Oscar: {{cquote}} After receiving a fatal electric shock, Dawn is immortalized as her distorted face is shown in freeze frame with the end credits rolling over it.Vincent Van Horst  is a hard-drinking bon viveur who loves his freedom and his women. In 1916, he leaves Europe, which is torn apart by the war, and moves to Canada, intending to meet up with Maria, the only woman he ever loved. On the way to Canada, he meets a young boy who dreams about fighting in the European war. When Vincent arrives at the Bar de la fourche, managed by Maria, he finds her looking older. He finds consolation in another woman, Annie, who looks down on him and drives Vincent and Olivier to fight a duel against each other.{{cite web}}Painfully shy Sheila Levine moves from Pennsylvania to New York City where she shares an apartment with an extroverted, socially active roommate. When Sheila goes to a nightclub with her roommate, she meets Sam, a doctor who is looking for a one-night stand. She is very attracted to Sam, but he is interested in her vivacious roommate. Sheila goes back to Pennsylvania for a while and then returns to New York with the intent of winning Sam over, but finds that he and her roommate are engaged.The film takes place in 1953. Larry Lipinsky is a young Jewish boy from Brooklyn, New York, who has dreams of stardom. He moves to Greenwich Village, much to the chagrin of his extremely overprotective mother. Larry ends up hanging out with an eccentric bunch of characters while waiting for his big break. He has group of tight-knit friends, which includes a wacky girl named Connie; Anita, an emotionally distraught young woman who constantly contemplates suicide; Robert, a young WASP who fancies himself a poet; and Bernstein, a gay man. All the while, he tries to maintain a stormy relationship with Sarah, his girlfriend. This band of outsiders becomes Larry's new family as he struggles as an actor and works toward a break in Hollywood.A new married couple spent their honeymoon in the southwestern of the United States.Fleisch – Follow-me-now.de Suddenly, the unbelievable happens: the husband is kidnapped and assaulted by paramedics in an ambulance. The wife escaped at the last minute, it is taken up by a truck driver.Fleisch 1979: Movie and film review from Answers.com Together they embark on the search for the kidnapped husband, they encounter a dangerous and perfectly organized syndicate that supplies the world's wealthy customers in organs of young, healthy people.Fleisch  – Review: DVDFreebie and Bean are detectives with the San Francisco police. While distracted by his suspicions that his wife is having affair, Bean and his partner investigate racketeer Red Meyers, only to learn that a hit man is after Meyers as well.The film tells the grotesque story of a large family living in an extremely poor shantytown of the periphery of Rome. The main protagonist is one-eyed patriarch Giacinto . Four generations of his sons and relatives are cramped together in his shack, managing to get by mainly on thieving and whoring, among other things more or less respectable. For the loss of his eye, an insurance company has paid Giacinto a large sum. Giacinto refuses to share his money with anyone, and spends little of it on himself, preferring to hide it from his family, which he routinely abuses verbally and physically. Various members of the family unsuccessfully try to steal his money. When Giacinto falls in love with an obese prostitute, brings her home and starts spending his money on her, Giacinto's enraged wife conspires with the rest of the family to poison him. However, Giacinto survives. In a frenzy of anger, he sets fire to his home. To his disappointment, his family survives. Giacinto then sells the house to a Neapolitan immigrant family. Giacito's family refuses to let the Neapolitans take over the shack, and in the ensuing fight, the shack collapses. The film ends with Giacinto living in a newly built exceedingly crowded shack with both his mistress and his wife, together with an apparently reconciled family and the newcomers as well.At a midwestern college, student Mary Crawford has the combined good and bad fortune to meet Andy Schmidt, a remarkably conceited young man who is convinced that he is tremendously talented and has every intention of becoming a star. Andy is so obnoxious, he wants Mary to marry him fast before he becomes too famous to give her a second look. She can't resist him, try as she might. Mary takes her new boyfriend home to Columbus, Ohio, to meet her strait-laced parents. Andy proceeds to annoy them in every possible way, hugging them, calling them "Tom and Mom," interrupting dinner to do a series of impressions, thoroughly ruining the visit. "Oh, God, why him?" Mary rhetorically asks. Nevertheless, she elopes to a justice of the peace, marries Andy and moves with him to New York City, where he is certain Broadway or the movies will beckon within a matter of weeks. Half a year passes and Andy gets nowhere. His ego isn't bruised and he remains his same insufferable self. Mary takes an office job to support them. She gets pregnant and still loves her husband, but her parents are terribly worried for Mary and she has to ask them for money because Andy isn't making any. Andy does manage to make a friend, Milton Miller, a little person with a big ego. Milton might not look like a ladies' man, but he definitely is, as he tries to prove to everybody, even Mary's mom. Milton is a struggling actor himself. He points out to Andy a way to make a few bucks: "I wrestle sometimes." Out of inspiration or desperation, Andy tries his hand at a new occupation—professional wrestling. He doesn't have the build for it, but by behaving and dressing in the manner of a Gorgeous George, he creates a character known as "The Lover" who drives both opponents and audiences crazy. Andy has thousands of fans at last, even if they're not the kind he had in mind.After being blinded in a horseback-riding accident, Sarah  visits her uncle's home. Out on a date with her boyfriend Steve , she escapes the fate of her relatives , who are murdered at their home by a psychotic killer. Sarah returns from her date and spends the night in the house, unaware that three of her family members' corpses are strewn about the house. She eventually discovers the bodies, as well as a bracelet containing the engraved name of the killer. The killer returns, searching for the lost bracelet and discovers Sarah, who manages to flee on horseback. Sarah encounters a family of gypsies and shows them the bracelet with the name "Jacko" inscribed. One of the gypsies concludes that his brother Jack must be responsible. In an effort to save Jack, the brother pretends to take Sarah to the police but, instead, locks her in a secluded shed. Sarah eventually escapes from the shed and reunites with Steve. Steve and his grooms leave Sarah at his house and begin a search for the killer. They come across the two gypsy brothers and are about to kill them, when Jack reveals that he wears a bracelet with the name "Jack", and not "Jacko," inscribed. The boyfriend, upon learning that the real killer's name is "Jacko", doubles back to his house, where it is revealed that one of the grooms, Jacko , had been left behind to tend to Sarah. Back at the house, Jacko attempts to drown Sarah in a bathtub, but Steve returns just in time to rescue her.Eileen  and her boyfriend Woody  are driving through the desert. When their car gets a flat Woody goes to find a gas station. Their friends Becky , Jerry  and Molly  are traveling separately in a different vehicle. They reach Eileen waiting at the car and they all drive off to collect Woody. Woody has found a gas station but it appears deserted. He enters the back room but becomes trapped. Various mannequins appear in the room, and multiple objects fly at him until a metal pipe impales and kills him. The others find a tourist trap and conclude Woody is there. As they drive in, their vehicle mysteriously breaks down. Jerry tries to fix his jeep and the girls go skinny dipping in a nearby oasis. As they swim, Slausen  appears holding a shotgun. Though outwardly polite he also seems embittered by the decline of his tourist trap since the highway was moved away. The nude girls feel awkward in the water as he chats and they apologise for tresspassing. Slausen offers to help Jerry with the jeep, but insists the group go to his house with him to get his tools. There, they see the tourist trap: animated wax works type figures including armed bandits. Eileen is curious about a nearby house, but Slausen insists the women stay inside the museum. Slausen takes Jerry to fix the jeep leaving the women. Eileen leaves to find a phone in the other house. There she finds several mannequins inside the house. Someone calls her name, and a stranger wearing a grotesque mask suddenly appears behind her. Various items in the room move of their own accord and the scarf Eileen is wearing tightens and strangles her. Slausen returns to Molly and Becky saying that Jerry drove his truck into town. When told that Eileen left, he goes to the house and finds Eileen has been turned into a mannequin. He returns and tells Molly and Becky he did not find Eileen and will leave again to continue the search. Frustrated the women also later leave to search for her. Becky enters the nearby house and finds a mannequin resembling Eileen. Becky is attacked by the masked killer and then by multiple mannequins. She later wakes up tied up in the basement along with Jerry. Jerry says the killer is Slausen's brother. Also held captive is Tina , who is strapped to a table. She is killed when the masked man covers her face with plaster, causing her to suffocate. Jerry frees himself and attacks the killer, but is soon overpowered. Jerry tries to reach for a key but the killer telepathically moves it from his reach. Molly, still outside searching for the others, is pursued by the masked man. She meets Slausen who drives her to the museum and gives her a gun while he goes inside. The masked man appears and Molly shoots, but the gun is loaded with blanks. The man removes the mask: it is Slausen. She panics and tries to elude Slausen but is soon captured and restrained to a bed. Becky and Jerry escape from the basement but, get separated. Slausen appears and takes Becky to the museum. There the Old West figures begin shooting at her, and she is killed by an Indian Chief figure who throws a knife at her, stabbing her in the back of the neck. Back at the house, Jerry arrives to rescue Molly, but he is revealed to have unknowingly been turned into a mannequin. Slausen dances with the figure of his wife, and Molly sees that the wife has become animated. Traumatised, she kills Slausen with an axe. The film then ends where it takes place the next morning, and a grinning Molly is seen driving away in the jeep with the mannequin versions of her friends.The film starts as young Kate Barker  is brutalized by others, including her father and older brothers. Skipping forward 35 years, the middle-aged Kate 'Ma' Barker  brutalizes innocent people and robs banks with her four sons; the pragmatic Arthur , the sadistic Herman , the bisexual Fred , and the loyal, drug-addicted Lloyd . It all begins in the late 1920s when Ma leaves her husband, George, and her Arkansas home and embarks on her own with her four sons on a robbery-murder spree to make her own fortune, while keeping them under a tight leash. When Herman and Fred are arrested and imprisoned for petty theft charges, Ma takes over the group and leads Arthur and Lloyd on a bank robbery spree to gain enough money to get her sons out of jail. The gang is joined by a gunman named Kevin  who was Fred's cellmate during his incarceration and his strongly implied lover. The group is also joined by a local prostitute named Mona Gibson, whom Herman frequented before his imprisonment. The gang resorts to more violent action and robberies. While hiding out at a cabin in Kentucky, Lloyd comes across a young woman swimming at a nearby lake whom he sexually assaults. Not wanting the woman to report them to the police, the Barkers hold her captive and Ma eventually kills her by drowning her despite the protests of her sons. Another time later, the gang arrives in Tennessee where they abduct a wealthy businessman named Sam Pendlebury  . Holding him for a $300,000 ransom, the sons, particularly Herman, bond with their captive whom they see as the sympathetic father figure they never had. When Herman and Mona go to collect the ransom, they are chased by a pair of FBI agents and barely escape. When they find that the ransom is only half of what they originally demanded, Ma orders her sons to kill Sam rather than let him go. But none of them can bring themselves to do it and they set him free, lying to Ma about killing him. Next, the gang hides out in Florida Everglades where Lloyd soon dies from a heroin overdose and Mona leaves Herman and the gang after she reveals that she's pregnant and does not want to be around them anymore out of the safety for hers and Herman's unborn child. But Herman and Kevin give away their hiding place one day when a local handyman and caretaker named Moses  witnesses them shooting an alligator out on a lake with a Tommy gun. Moses then calls the police and reports his suspicions. At the climax, several FBI agents and local police arrive at the Barkers' farmhouse hideout and a huge shootout ensues between the authorities and the surviving members of the gang. Kevin, Fred, and Arthur are all killed. Herman commits suicide to prevent himself from being sent to prison again. Ma is the last one to fall.A cantankerous horse trainer and his jockey daughter attempt to reconcile their troubled relationship.Bun-rye, the eldest daughter in a poor family, is violated by Yong-pal, who is a married man, and out of desperation she becomes a concubine of Young-cheol, a gambler who is impotent. Kong Jo-shi is in love with Bun-rye, though she still has feelings for Yong-pal. After losing his money, Young-cheol takes out his anger on Bun-rye and throws her out of his house. In retaliation, Jo-shi kills Young-cheol, and Bun-rye is driven to madness.When the body of a young woman is found on an isolated beach, Lieutenant Phil Gaines and his partner, Sergeant Louis Belgrave, are the weary and bitter LAPD detectives assigned to the homicide investigation. They conclude, with the support of the coroner's report, that the victim, a hooker and known drug user named Gloria Hollinger, committed suicide using pills. The commanding officer, Santuro, tells them to close the case. When the detectives talk to the family about the death they omit two facts about the case. That just prior to her death Gloria attended a party at the home of Leo Sellers, a rich, powerful, but corrupt, local attorney and that Gloria had large quantities of semen in her stomach, vagina and rectum indicating that she had apparently engaged in a variety of sexual acts with numerous partners just prior to her demise. Her father, Marty Hollinger, a headstrong veteran of the Korean Conflict, does not accept the official report and attempts to locate the possible criminal involvement with his own investigation. He discovers the connection to Sellers, who is also a regular costumer of Phil's girlfriend, the French prostitute Nicole Britton.Frank  and Loyd  spend most of their time drinking, flirting with women (even though Frank is married to Paulette  and thinking of get rich quick schemes since they can't seem to hold down jobs. They tried frog farming and squirrel ranching among other things and now are in a failing roofing business. Finally, Loyd invents a gadget he calls the "Kitchen Wizard," and they each make a thousand dollars selling the rights to a patent attorney who gives them a contract worth much more. However, their idea is stolen and they soon run out of money. Frank contemplates suicide, but Loyd talks him out of it by reminding him of his family and their friendship.Chad ([[Robert Burton  and Eddie  are college students who admire their English teacher, Julie Eldrich . During one class, Chad is distracted by Julie's thigh as she sits on her desk and daydreams about her. After Chad reveals his fantasies to Eddie, Eddie describes Julie as "ugly" and discourages Chad from becoming romantically involved with teachers. Later that evening, when Julie is undressing in her room, Chad watches her through a window. The next day, Chad asks Julie out on a date. Julie initially refuses, but later accepts Chad's offer. During the date at a drive-in theater, Chad spikes Julie's drink, rendering her unconscious. Chad drives her to a motel. After checking them in as husband and wife, Chad photographs Julie in a variety of sexually provocative positions. Julie begins to regain consciousness, and Chad takes her home, explaining that she had just fallen asleep. After developing the photographs in his darkroom, Chad shows the pictures to Julie. She is furious and threatens to call the police. Chad blackmails Julie into submitting to his romantic attentions, and she reluctantly agrees. After several weeks of this, Julie announces, "The game is over." Julie reveals that it was actually she who had manipulated Chad in an elaborate role play of her own design. "Did you really think that dull, little mind of yours could possibly have conceived any of the rather dramatic experiences we've shared? Why do you think you suddenly had the overwhelming desire to see what I looked like under 'all those clothes?' Don't feel bad... I always get bored after a while."<ref name "Millicent and Therese"  "Amelia"  Production notes  Synopsis  Amelia lives alone in a high-rise apartment building. She returns home after shopping with a package. Inside is a Zuni fetish doll, crafted in the form of a misshapen aboriginal warrior equipped with razor sharp teeth and a spear. A scroll comes with the doll, claiming that the doll contains the actual spirit of a Zuni hunter named "He Who Kills", and that the gold chain adorning the doll keeps the spirit trapped within. As Amelia makes a call to her mother we learn that she suffers from her mother's overbearing behavior. Amelia struggles to justify her independence and attempts to cancel their plans for the evening because she has a date. The moment Amelia leaves the room, the Zuni doll's golden chain falls off without her knowing. Later, Amelia is preparing dinner, using a carving knife. She enters the darkened living room, and realizes the doll is not on the coffee table. Amelia hears a noise in the kitchen and when she investigates, the knife is missing. Returning to the living room, she is suddenly attacked by the doll, which stabs at her ankles viciously. She attempts to flee, but the doll chases her around the apartment. In the bathroom, Amelia envelops the doll in a towel and attempts futilely to drown it in the bathtub. She later traps it in a suitcase, but accidentally releases it when she opens the case to make sure the doll is dead and still inside. After several more vicious attacks, Amelia manages to hurl it into the oven and listens to it howling and screaming as it catches fire. Soon the screams die down and eventually stop. She opens the oven to ensure that the doll is "dead', and a cloud of black smoke billows out. Inhaling the smoke, she is suddenly overcome. We see Amelia place another call to her mother. In a calm, controlled voice, she apologizes for her behavior during the previous call, and invites her mother to visit her home for dinner. She then rips the bolt from her front door and crouches down low in an animalistic manner, hiding in the corner with a carving knife. She stabs at the floor with the weapon, grinning ferally and revealing the horrific teeth of the Zuni doll whose spirit now infests her body.In the film, Broadway actress Myrtle Gordon rehearses for her latest play, about a woman unable to admit that she is aging. When she witnesses the death of an adoring young fan, she begins to confront the personal and professional turmoils she faces in her own life.The plot revolves around Countess Irina von Karlstein , a mute woman who needs sex like a vampire needs blood in order to stay alive forever.Roberto Curti, La comtesse noire , in Succubus. Guida al cinema di Jess Franco, Nocturno Dossier allegato a Nocturno Cinema n. 60, Anno XII, luglio 2007, a cura di Roberto Curti con la collaborazione di Francesco Cesari, pp. 50-51. When new victims are found fatally drained of potency, forensic scientist Dr. Roberts consults his colleague, Dr. Orloff, who confirms that a vampire is responsible. Meanwhile, Irina is confronted by a poet who believes he is destined to become her lover and join her among the immortals.Len  and his wife Barbara  have separated after he beat her in a drunken rage. He tries to get her back with a series of letters.A young woman named Clea Lake becomes a pawn of the sorceress Morgan le Fay. The primary defender of our world against threats of a magical nature, the Sorcerer Supreme, is presently a man named Thomas Lindmer. He and his pupil and friend, Wong, contact a psychiatrist named Stephen Strange, who is the heir to his father's potential to become Lindmer's disciple and the next Sorcerer Supreme. Strange bears his father's magical ring as a sign of this, and he has already sensed something wrong, but does not recognize the importance of these feelings of apprehension. Lindmer must convince Strange of the reality of the mystical world wherein the battle between good and evil is played out on a magical level, all unbeknownst to the mundane world, to save Clea and thwart Morgan's plans.Occult writer John Verney is asked by Henry Beddows to pick up his daughter Catherine from the airport. Catherine is a nun with The Children of the Lord, a mysterious Heretic order located in Bavaria and is allowed to come to visit once a year on her birthday. But after Catherine arrives, Beddows then insists that she stay with Verney. But the order, under the sinister excommunicated heretic Father Michael Rayner, makes all efforts to get Catherine back and uses black magic to stop Verney as he protects her. Verney learns that the order really harbours a group of practicing Satanists who have prepared Catherine to become an avatar of Astaroth upon her eighteenth birthday.Moving forward to Dracula's homeland , the local villagers are enraged that yet another young woman has been murdered by the Count. With a priest's blessing, they rise up and set fire to Castle Dracula. However, the Count is safely asleep in a solid stone crypt. When the villagers return home, they find that every single woman and child in the village has been slaughtered in the church by bats. Falsely accused of rape by the spurned burgomasters' daughter, libertine Paul Carlson flees the Kleinenberg authorities by jumping into a nearby coach which, though driverless, heads off at great speed. He is deposited near Count Dracula's mountaintop castle. Initially he is welcomed by the Count and a beautiful woman. Paul later has a liaison with the woman who concludes their lovemaking by trying to bite his neck. Dracula enters and, casually throwing off Paul's efforts to stop him, savagely stabs the woman to death. Dracula's servant Klove dismembers her body and dissolves the pieces in a bath of either holy water or acid. Trapped in a room high in the castle, Paul uses a line to climb down to a lower window but the line is withdrawn and he is trapped in a dark doorless room. Paul's more sober brother Simon Carlson and Paul's fiancee Sarah Framsen come searching for him. A maid at the tavern directs them to the castle and they investigate. Dracula has immediate designs on the lovely Sarah, but Klove, who has fallen in love with the young woman, helps the young couple escape by refusing to do Dracula's bidding to remove Sarah's crucifix. The servant pays a terrible price for his disobedience, when he is viciously whipped by Dracula with a red-hot sword. Simon, having enlisted the help of the village priest, goes back to the castle to look for his brother. However, the priest is attacked by a large bat and killed and Simon is betrayed by Klove, ending up in the same doorless room as his brother. Opening a coffin in the middle of the room, Simon discovers the sleeping Dracula, but the vampire's power reaches through his closed eyelids causing the young man to collapse before he can take action against the Count. When Simon recovers, Dracula is awake and climbs up the sheer outer wall to go after Sarah, knowing that Simon is trapped. Meanwhile, Simon finds his brother's body in a dark recess of the room, impaled on a metal spike. Sarah has made her way back to the castle and is confronted by Dracula, who this time uses his bat familiar to remove Sarah's crucifix. Klove frees Simon and the two go up to the battlements to try and save Sarah from Dracula. Klove attacks the Count, but is hopelessly outmatched and thrown over the side of the castle. Simon arrives and throws a heavy iron spike at Dracula. It pierces him but he pulls it out, unharmed, and raises it to impale Simon. But the spike is struck by lightning and Dracula, in flames, falls from the castle wall. The end, for now.Willard is a meek social misfit with a strange affinity for rats. He lives in a large mansion, with only his cranky and decrepit mother for company. On his 27th birthday he leaves the party out of embarrassment. While sitting outside he sees a rat and tosses it pieces of birthday cake. His mother gets upset with him for leaving the party and she scolds him later while also discussing how badly the house is falling apart. The next morning he goes out and feeds another rat  while imitating their squeaks. His mother starts telling him that he needs to kill the rats that have been running around their yard, to which Willard refuses. When Willard goes to work he is promptly scolded by his boss Mr. Martin. Later he returns home and traps the rat family in the center rock in the pond by using a wooden plank and food, before turning on the water, taking the plank away, and letting it fill up until the water level reaches the rats ; by then he feels guilty and puts the plank back before turning off the water. When his mother asks if he killed the rats he lies and tells her he did. That afternoon he begins playing with a rat he names Queenie, and begins teaching them words like "food" and "empty". He sees a white rat and immediately takes a liking to it. The white rat becomes his best companion and he names it Socrates for his wisdom. Numerous other rats come to him, one of which is a giant specimen he names Ben. At work, Mr. Martin nags at Willard, telling him he won't give him a raise, and then urges him to sell the house. Willard sneaks up to a party Mr Martin is throwing opens his suitcase which has rats in it, he then urges them to go get the food and ruin the party. The guests begin screaming and Willard laughs behind the bushes where he's hiding. The next day Willard's mother dies. After this Willard is further pressured from the banks to give up the house. Willard decides to bring Socrates and Ben to the office with him. He sets them on some shelves and tells them to be good. One of his friends at work gives him a cat named Chloe. Chloe constantly claws at the suitcase where Ben and Socrates are residing. Willard hands her off to a complete stranger and drives away. Later on it is revealed that the rat population is getting too big and he can't afford to feed them much longer. Willard decides to steal money from his boss. He orders the rats to "tear it up" and puts them in front of the door. Later, at home, Willard gets mad at Ben and keeps putting him outside the bedroom, but Ben persists in sleeping in his room. The next day he again takes Ben and Socrates to work. One of the workers spots the rats and Mr. Martin bludgeons Socrates to death, leaving Willard devastated. Willard trains his rats to follow his commands and kills Mr. Martin after confronting him. Willard then abandons Ben, goes home and begins sealing up any holes that the rats can enter his house through. He also puts as many as he can into cages and drowns them in the small pool outside. Willard has dinner with Joan, a girl he likes but is rudely interrupted by Ben staring at him. He gets up and notices all of the rats running up the stairs from the basement. He orders Joan to leave and locks the door before confronting Ben. Willard stalls and begins mixing rat poison, but Ben reads the box and squeals loudly, alerting the others, some attack Willard. In an act of desperation, Willard tries to hit the rat with a broom, but misses. He runs upstairs but the other rats come after him. Shutting the door, he stands there terrified. The rats begin to gnaw at the door and eventually break in and devour him. The camera zooms into a close-up of Ben and the credits roll.The film spans three days in the life of Agnes and Tobias, an upper middle class couple who share their comfortable suburban Connecticut home with her acerbic alcoholic sister Claire. It is matriarch Agnes who helps the trio maintain a delicate balance in their lives, held together by habit, shared memories, and considerable consumption of dry martinis. The seemingly peaceful facade of their existence is shattered with the arrival of longtime friends Harry and Edna who, suddenly overcome by a nameless terror, fled their home in search of a safe haven. The couple is followed by Agnes and Tobias' bitter, 36-year-old daughter Julia, who has returned to the family nest following the collapse of her fourth marriage. Their presence leads to a period of self-examination, during which all six are forced to explore their psyches and confront the demons hidden there.Wealthy housewife and children's author Cathryn  receives a series of disturbing and eerie phone calls in her home in London one dreary night. The female voice on the other end suggests mockingly to her that her husband Hugh  is having an affair. Cathryn's husband comes home, finding her in complete disarray. Hugh attempts to comfort her, but then he is gone, and she sees a different man who is behaving as if he were her husband. She screams in horror and backs away, only to see her vision of the figure revert back to her husband. Hugh attributes her outburst to stress and her budding pregnancy. He decides to take a vacation to the countryside at an isolated cottage. But as she dwells there, Cathryn delves into darker delusions as the stranger returns, and she finds it difficult to determine what is reality and what is in her mind.Jennie Logan and her husband Michael ([[Alan Feinstein  are trying to salvage their marriage after Jennie finds out about Michael's infidelity. They move into an old Victorian house in rural New England. In the attic, Jennie, who is herself a Victorian at heart, finds an authentic Victorian white dress under a protective cover, thick with dust. The dress is intact save for one small tear in shoulder of the fabric. After having the dress repaired, Jennie decides to wear it and admires herself in the mirror in the attic. She begins experiencing excruciating headaches and the room starts swirling around her. When the headache ceases, she finds herself still up in the attic, in the dress, yet the attic is now an artist's studio, complete with Victorian artifacts. Upon hearing muffled sounds from below, she hears a woman scream, as a man's voice downstairs is yelling, "Pamela." Terrified, Jennie shuts her eyes and finds herself back in the spot she was, in the present. At first she assumes she is either dreaming or hallucinating, yet Jennie experiences further similar episodes. She is initially terrified of finding herself in an unfamiliar situation and hysterical once she is pulled back into the present. After experiencing this a couple of times, she decides to explore the history of her new house in more detail. She goes to the local historical museum where an old curator named Mrs Bates  explains to her that the house belonged to artist David Reynolds in the year 1899. She explains how David reports that he saw the ghost of his dead wife several times and called out to her, but she disappeared each time. Reynolds died under mysterious circumstances on the night of the turn of the century. Legend has it that either he was murdered during a duel or that it was the woman he loved who killed him. However, no-one knows for certain. Also on the wall of the museum is a portrait painting which the old woman mistakes for Reynold's dead wife Pamela. Mrs Bates remarks how much of a striking resemblance the portrait bears to Jennie. Intrigued by this, Jennie keeps going back and forth between the two worlds by wearing the antique dress to meet David, who is grieving for his dead bride Pamela. When David first sees her again, he mistakes her for Pamela but quickly realises that it isn't her after Jennie introduces herself. Jennie realizes that what David mistook for his wife's ghostly appearances were really Jennie appearing in and out of time. When Jennie confides in her husband Michael, he doesn't believe her when she reveals to him about her time travels, and thinks that she is going crazy. He urges her to go a psychiatrist named Dr Erica Lauren . Mrs Bates takes Jennie to see "Aunt Betty", an extremely old woman on her death bed who is senile but was alive at the time of David Reynolds' murder. However, she is unable to shed any light on the situation. Jennie and David fall in love in 1899, but David's sister-in-law Elizabeth Harrington  is also in love with him. However, her father  disapproves of David and blames him for Pamela's accidental death. During their time together, David reveals to Jennie that he is working on a portrait. It is the same one that Jennie saw in the museum in the present which she assumed to be David's late wife Pamela. The painting is in fact a portrait of Jennie, which explains why it resembles her so closely. Pamela's father later challenges David to a duel on the night of the turn of the century - the night that David died. In the present, Jennie tries to find out how she can prevent David's death and save his life. Michael still doesn't believe Jennie. He gives her a locket which she promises she will always wear. Mrs Bates later calls Jennie and says that "Aunt Betty" is dying and wants to make a death bed confession. "Aunt Betty" reveals that she is really Elizabeth Harrington and that she is actually responsible for David's murder. During the duel, Elizabeth was hiding with a gun which she used to shoot David. Jennie rushes to save David in the past, but she is confronted by Michael who suspects her of inventing the entire delusion and that she is really having an affair. He tries to prevent her from going up to the attic, in the process ripping the shoulder of Jennie's dress and bringing it back to the state in which it was originally found. He chases her up the stairs but she manages to block his path by locking the door, which he tries to break down. In the meantime, Jennie has already escaped from the present world to the past world to stop the duel and try to save David's life. Jennie spots Elizabeth but appears to be shot when she tries to prevent the murder. In the present, Michael manages to break into the attic but he is too late. He discovers the lifeless body of Jennie lying on the bed. He grieves her death and she is later buried. Later, as Michael is cleaning out the attic, and preparing to move, the movers stumble onto several paintings. He goes through them, only to find out that they are of his wife, from the time she had left to be in the past and showing the life she led there: her portrait from the wedding to David, to a trip to Paris and to her growing old. While looking at these pictures, he notices that she is wearing the locket he gave her in the paintings. He remembers everything Jenny had said, and begins to cry, finally realizing that his wife was right the entire time. He then goes to the local cemetery, and finds the grave of "Jennie Reynolds" and lays flowers, before walking away.Tony Petersen is an electrical tradesman and former football star who is studying arts at university. Despite being married to adoring wife Susie, he is having an affair with his lecturer, Trish Kent, and has a fling with student Moira as part of a protest. Trish's husband Charles fails Petersen in his exams and Trish leaves for Oxford. Petersen rapes Trish and returns to his old life.It's the summer of 1937 in Bridgeport, Connecticut and 12-year-old Daniel Cooper ([[Chris Petersen  along with his 10-year-old sister Sarah  are looking forward to summer vacation, most particularly, the annual 4th of July festivities. Sarah soon befriends the town's gentle misfit, Albert Cavanaugh, known by the town's children as "Snowman" ([[Geoffrey Lewis , a highly decorated and now brain-damaged World War I veteran, after she defends him from the town's resident bully, "Red" Doyle . When Snowman finds himself accused of a terrible murder, Sarah, believing him to be innocent, convinces her successful attorney father, Ed Cooper ([[Dean Jones  to defend him. Amid courtroom allegations of communism and insinuations of a potentially inappropriate relationship with Sarah, Ed Cooper and the town's children must try to prove Snowman's innocence, before he can be sentenced to jail for the murder.Penfield was a girls school in 1955. The curriculum ranged from Latin to Etiquette, from Shakespeare to Field Hockey. Abigail is one of the new girls coming in to learn about these and other subjects. Coming from a well to do family, she hopes to be the school's best student. Just as she is getting started in the school, she meets Michael, a male student in the school. Soon the two fall deeply in love, but their relationship becomes challenged by those around them, leading to difficulties and tragedy.Lovers and Other Strangers revolves around the wedding of Mike  and Susan , intercutting their story with those of other couples among their families and friends. As the movie opens, Mike wants to call off the wedding, arguing that it would be hypocritical for them to get married when they've already been living together for a year and a half. He only relents when Susan's father, Hal , tells him how Susan went to her first Halloween party dressed as a bride. Over the course of the movie, we meet: * Susan's WASP-ish parents, Hal and Bernice . Hal, we learn, is having a long-running extramarital affair with Bernice's sister, Kathy , who is afraid of being left as a spinster and is using the wedding to get some commitment from Hal. * Susan's sister, Wilma , and her husband Johnny . With two children, Wilma is feeling her age and misses the passion they had at the beginning of their marriage, while Johnny is more interested in watching Spellbound on TV than giving his wife attention. * Mike's brother, Richie  and his wife, Joan , who have grown "incompatible" and "unhappy" and are considering divorce. * Bridesmaid Brenda  and usher Jerry , who Mike and Susan "fix up" for the wedding. Nebbishy Jerry imagines himself a playboy, and spends most of the weekend trying to "score" with Brenda. * Mike's Italian-American parents, Frank  and Bea , who are relentlessly trying to persuade Richie and Joan not to get divorced.  All the plot lines play out through the rehearsal, wedding, and reception.In a rich-boy/poor-girl story (along the lines of "[[Love Story , college students Michael Hillyard  and Nancy McAllister  are in love, much to the chagrin of Hillyard's disapproving mother, Marion . Michael and Nancy, visiting a park overlooking the Atlantic Ocean, hide a costume jewelry necklace under a large rock, promising that they will love each other as long as it remains undisturbed . Marion — whose relationship with her son is so tense that Michael calls his mother by her first name — is convinced that Nancy is below Michael's class, so she tries to intervene. Michael, making it clear that he isn't going to choose her over Nancy, storms out of the matriarch's home. Sensing the urgency of the moment and the matter, Michael calls Nancy with plans to elope. On the way to the ceremony, with Michael's best friend Ben Avery  in attendance, the three are involved in a horrible car crash. All three survive, but Michael is comatose. Marion makes a deal with Nancy, who is heavily bandaged in the hospital with severe facial damage. Marion will send her to California and pay for the best plastic surgeons to restore her face and finish her education  there. The catch is that Nancy must not return to Boston or contact Michael again unless he contacts her, with the implication being that he will decide if he wants the relationship to continue after the trauma of the accident. Believing that Michael will find her once he wakes up, Nancy agrees. Marion then tells Michael, when he has come out of his coma, that Nancy died in the car wreck. Time passes and, once healed, Nancy changes her name to Marie Adamson and becomes a successful photographer. Michael becomes a successful architect, designing multimillion-dollar business skyscrapers. His company takes a contract to design a building in San Francisco. Seeing a photograph that he admires, he tracks down the artist to ask her to paint a mural for the building's lobby. He doesn't recognize Nancy but she knows him on sight. Believing that he had discarded her, "Marie" refuses the offer. When he is persistent, she eventually gives Michael a photo and tells him to do what he likes with it. He has it put on a billboard on the side of a large truck, part of his campaign to break down her resistance. They develop a working relationship, Michael finding himself drawn to "Marie" in a way he cannot understand. He is puzzled by her strange behavior towards him. When she asks him about the scar above his eyebrow , Michael becomes terse and Marie takes it as a signal that he has forgotten all about her. Eventually, unable to contain her feelings of abandonment, she flees to the East Coast. After being assaulted by "Marie's" boyfriend when he shows up at their apartment demanding to see her, Michael looks up at the wall to recognize a completed painting which Nancy had only partially finished during their romance. He finally realizes "Marie" is actually Nancy. Told that she has gone to Boston, he returns there. In the climactic scene, Nancy reaches the rock. After a struggle, she dislodges it — to discover that the necklace is not there. While she tries to understand, Michael appears with the necklace in hand, having gotten there first. He poignantly informs her that she can't have it, because it belonged to a friend of his, whom he had been told had died in a car crash. This sets the stage for a romantic embrace.In this psychological thriller, a very pregnant Francesca  travels from Los Angeles to Minnesota to meet her late husband's mother, Mrs. Kinsolving, whom she has never met before. Mrs. Kinsolving  is cold to Francesca, questions whether she is actually pregnant with her son's baby, and tells Francesca she wants nothing to do with her or her baby in the future. It soon becomes clear that Francesca cannot leave that night as a blizzard has made the roads impassable. Francesca is forced to stay in the Kinsolving mansion for a few days. She soon begins to suspect that something is amiss due to inconsistencies in information between what her late husband  told her and Mrs. Kinsolving's statements to her. While Matthew never mentioned he had a sister, Mrs. Kinsolving claims that the mentally challenged and non-verbal Kathleen  is Matthew's sister. After Mrs. Kinsolving retires for the night, Francesca sneaks around and discovers in the family bible that Matthew's mother  died eleven days after Matthew was killed in the Vietnam War, that Mrs. Kinsolving is actually Maria's sister, Katherine, who is Kathleen's mother and the mother of Kenny , a serial rapist and murderer who is hiding somewhere in the Kinsolving mansion. Francesca goes into labor, but Mrs. Kinsolving refuses to call for an ambulance. She sedates Francesca heavily. When the baby is born, Mrs. Kinsolving announces it is dead and hands the baby over to Kathleen to bury. That night, Kathleen rouses Francesca and takes her to the attic where she finds Kathleen has hidden her baby in a picnic basket. The baby is very much alive. Mrs. Kinsolving, suspecting Francesca is sneaking around the mansion, locks her in her room. Kathleen is able to locate the key to the room and unlocks it, allowing Fracesca to care for her baby. One night, Francesca secretly spies the unsuspecting Kenny who is hiding in the basement laundry. She overhears his conversation with Mrs. Kinsolving, and it is menacing. Meanwhile, Mrs. Kinsolving discovers that the family bible has been opened to the page detailing the date of Maria Kinsolving's death. Mrs. Kinsolving informs Kenny that Francesca knows Maria is dead, but does not think she is aware that Kenny is hiding in the mansion. The next morning, Mrs. Kinsolving announces that the blizzard has cleared enough for a driver to take Francesca into town to take the bus back to Los Angeles. At breakfast, the driver arrives—and it is Kenny. Francesca quickly tells Mrs. Kinsolving that she left her gloves in her third floor room and she needs to retrieve them. Instead she gets her baby from the attic, hides the baby under her coat and flees the mansion. However, Mrs. Kinsolving spots Francesca running away and yells for Kenny to get her. He takes chase and Kathleen notices. Francesca sees Kenny is quickly gaining ground, and she darts into the carriage house in an attempt to elude him. He locates her, they struggle, and he knocks Francesca unconscious. The baby slips from under her coat. Kenny smiles sadistically and covers the crying baby's face with his hand. Suddenly, Kathleen sneaks up behind him and stabs him in the back with a pair of scissors. The film ends with Mrs. Kinsolving cradling her dead son as Kathleen and Fracesca, holding her baby, look on and help arrives.The day is May 8, 1938, the day when Hitler visited Rome to meet premier Mussolini. Also on this day, as her entire family  goes to the streets to follow the great meeting and the parade, an Italian housewife  stays home looking after some domestic tasks. Her apartment building is empty but for a man  who seems repulsed by fascism , living in the building across in the complex. As this chamber drama progresses, and loneliness of each is revealed, the audience learns that this man is a radio broadcaster who has lost his job and is about to be deported to Sardinia, due to his political attitudes and his homosexuality. Unaware of this, the housewife flirts with him, as they meet by chance in the empty building. During their conversation, the rather naïve and mainstream woman is surprised by his opinions and finally shocked when she realizes his sexual orientation. Nonetheless, despite their fights and arguments, a friendship develops and they eventually make love before he is taken away by the police and her family comes back home.Review - A Special Day Channel 4.A Special DayStephen Blume , a Beverly Hills divorce lawyer, tries to regain the wife  who has divorced him. Wandering around Venice, Italy, where they first honeymooned, Blume wonders what possessed him to betray Nina, a woman he loves, by having sex with his secretary in the bed he and Nina share at home. Nina promptly leaves him and sets about a journey of self-discovery, trying new things like yoga and taking up with a man 12 years her junior, Elmo , an unemployed musician. Blume goes to great lengths to win Nina back, complicated by the fact that he finds Elmo to be quite a nice guy.Gigi, Jerome, Christiane, Jean-Claude, and Bernard visit a resort in the Ivory Coast, the Club Med village of Assinie. Bernard subsequently meets up with his wife, Nathalie, who has already spent a week there, and they are all welcomed by Popeye and the eccentric emcees, Bobo and Bourseault. The film follows the humorous couplings and uncouplings of the group, and especially Popeye's attempt to seduce record numbers of women.Anne Baldwin arrives at Huntington House, a maternity home for pregnant minors. The school's principal Doris McKenzie is initially reluctant to hire Baldwin, because she has no degree. In class, Baldwin soon finds out she is unable to get through the teens, of whom most are rebellious and aggressive. She constantly clashes with the school's newest student, 17-year-old Sara. Sara has been forced by her parents to enter the home and has been assigned the roommate of Gail, a model student who has a snobbish, dominant mother. Sara feels Baldwin is too old-fashioned, too introverted and does not know the meaning of love and sex. Inspired by Sara's attempts to make her open up, Baldwin introduces a more personal, social teaching structure. From this point, she bonds with several students, including Marilyn, who gives birth to a baby. Following a fight, Sara is fed up with Huntington House and leaves. Baldwin tries to stop her, but this results into a confrontation, during which Baldwin slaps Sara. During her absence, Baldwin decides not to report her to the authorities and after Sara's return, they become friends. Nevertheless, Sara's attitude has become worse, having become depressed and constantly announcing she will give up her baby immediately after its birth. Baldwin knows that, secretly, Sara want to keep the baby, but she is pressured by her parents to give it up. On graduation day, Gail is reluctantly taken home by her vicious mother, who feels Gail is not treated the proper way at Huntington House. Sara announces she will not give up the baby, and, encouraged by Baldwin, leaves with her boyfriend Sandy instead. Baldwin is also inspired to follow her heart and admits to her romantic feelings for widow Sam Dutton, to whom she finally commits.This French melodrama tells the tragic story of a rare couple: Priest Jean , who falls in love with a young woman, the 17-year-old girl Françoise , has relations with her, and gets her pregnant. That happens during World War II. Some years later Françoise waits for her majority to get her child out from the orphelinat and Jean becomes communist.Paul Lawrence is a working class man who dates Cara, sells shirts at a Sydney department store, and dreams of attending art school. Cara leaves for London and Paul becomes the protege of designer Marie Rosefield. Through this he enters the "set", the world of Sydney art society. Rosefield is friends with Mark Broniski, an artist who commissions Paul to design a set for British stage director John L Fredericks. Paul is helped by art student Tony Brown, who is dating Paul's cousin, Kim Sylvester. Paul and Tony begin a homosexual affair. Kim's mother Peggy has an affair with Boronoski. Paul and Tony break up and Paul commits suicide. He is reunited with Cara.After school, kids go to a local candy shop, where the owner Bill  serves chocolate to the kids . Charlie Bucket  stares through the window as he sings, saddened that he has no money. The newsagent Mr. Jopeck  gives him some money to buy a loaf of bread. On his way, he passes the chocolate factory of Willy Wonka , a local candy maker. A tinker  tells him  "nobody ever goes in, and nobody ever comes out". He brings the bread back to his Grandpa Joe , his widow mother , and his other three bedridden grandparents. That night, he tells Grandpa about the tinker and what he said, and Grandpa tells him about Wonka and how spies were trying to steal his life's work. He closed the factory, but three years later he started selling candy again, but is still unseen to this day. One day, the family, along with the rest of the world, learns that Wonka has hidden five Golden Tickets amongst his Wonka Bars. The finders of these special tickets will be given a full tour of his factory, as well as a lifetime supply of chocolate to the "winner". Charlie wants to take part in the search, but cannot afford to buy vast quantities of chocolate bars like other participants . Four of the tickets are found by: Augustus Gloop , a gluttonous German boy; Veruca Salt , a spoiled English girl; Violet Beauregarde , a gum-chomping American girl; and Mike Teavee , a television-obsessed American boy. As they find their tickets, a sinister-looking man is observed whispering in their ears, to whom they listen attentively despite their preoccupations with their particular obsessions. Charlie's hopes are dashed when news breaks that the final ticket had been found by a Paraguayan millionaire. The next day, as the Golden Ticket craze ends, Charlie finds a silver coin in a gutter and uses it to buy a Wonka Bar. Simultaneously, word spreads that the ticket found by the millionaire was forged and that one ticket is still about somewhere. When Charlie opens the bar, he finds the real golden ticket, and races home to tell his family, but is confronted by the same man who had been seen whispering to the other four winners. The man introduces himself as Arthur Slugworth, a rival confectioner who offers to pay Charlie a large sum of money for a sample of Wonka's latest creation, the Everlasting Gobstopper. Grandpa Joe gets out of bed to serve as Charlie's tour chaperone . The next day, Wonka greets the children and their guardians at the factory gates and leads them inside, requiring each to sign a contract before the tour can begin. Inside is a psychedelic wonderland full of chocolate rivers, giant edible mushrooms, lickable wallpaper and other ingenious inventions and candies, as well as Wonka's workers, the small, orange-skinned, green-haired Oompa-Loompas . As the tour progresses, each of the first four children ignore Wonka's warnings, resulting in serious consequences. Augustus is sucked through a chocolate extraction pipe system and sent to the Fudge Room, having fallen into a chocolate river from which he was trying to drink. Violet transforms into a giant blueberry after trying an experimental piece of Three-Course-Dinner Gum. Veruca is rejected as a "bad egg" and falls down a garbage chute in the Chocolate Golden Egg Sorting Room . Mike is shrunken to only a few inches in height after being transmitted by "Wonkavision", a broadcasting technology that can send objects through television instead of pictures. The Oompa-Loompas sing a song after each incident, describing that particular child's poor behaviour . While in Wonka's Inventing Room, the remaining children are each given a sample of Wonka's Everlasting Gobstoppers. Charlie also succumbs to temptation along with Grandpa Joe, as they stay behind in the Bubble Room and sample Fizzy Lifting Drinks. They begin floating skyward and are nearly sucked into a ceiling-mounted exhaust fan. To avoid this grisly fate, they burp repeatedly until they return to the ground. Wonka initially seems unaware of this incident. When Charlie becomes the last remaining child on the tour, Wonka dismisses him and Grandpa Joe and leaves for his office. When Grandpa Joe returns to ask about Charlie's lifetime supply of chocolate, Wonka irritably reveals that Charlie had violated the contract by sampling the Fizzy Lifting Drinks, and thus forfeited his prize, and Wonka furiously dismisses them. Grandpa Joe vows to give Slugworth the gobstopper in revenge. Charlie, however, cannot bring himself to hurt Wonka and places the gobstopper on his desk. Wonka recants and begs for his guests' forgiveness. He reveals that "Slugworth" is actually an employee named Wilkinson, whose offer to buy the gobstopper  was all part of a morality test for the Golden Ticket winners, and Charlie was the only one who passed the test. The trio enter the "Wonkavator", a multi-dimensional glass elevator, and fly out of the factory in it. As they soar over the city, Wonka tells Charlie that his actual prize is not just the chocolate but the factory itself, as the Golden Ticket search was created to help Wonka search for an honest and worthy child to be his heir. Charlie and his family will reside in the factory and take over its operation when Wonka retires.The film opens with the reading of the will of Patrick Dennis's  late father, by his trustee, Mr. Babcock . The will states that Patrick is to be left in the care of his aunt, Mame Dennis , as well as his nanny, Agnes Gooch . The two take a train ride to live with Mame . When they arrive, they walk into a big party that Mame is giving for a holiday she herself created . Patrick introduces himself by asking if he may slide down her banister, then reveals that he is Patrick. Mame introduces him to several of her friends, including aspiring stage actress and famous lush, Vera Charles . The following morning, Patrick awakens a hungover Mame with his bugle. After Patrick tells Mame what Mr. Babcock has said about her, she decides that she wants to fill his life with adventure . She decides to enroll him in "the School of Life," a very non-traditional school, but when Vera inadvertently leads the trustee, Mr. Babcock, to Patrick's school, Patrick is taken from Mame's custody. In that same moment, Mame gets a phone call and learns that the stock market crash has left her without any money to hire a lawyer to regain custody of Patrick. Vera, knowing that Mame is now in need of money, offers Mame a very small role as The Man in the Moon in her newest operetta about a lady astronomer. Unfortunately, Mame flubs her one line and causes the play to be a disaster, which puts a major rift in her friendship with Vera. Meanwhile, Patrick, who was in the audience, reassures Mame that she's not a failure and lets her know that he still loves her . Now broke, Mame has worked a string of jobs, including one selling shoes. While working in the shoe section of the department store, a customer comes in wanting a present to send to someone back home. Mame helps him make the decision to buy a pair of roller skates by trying them on. The customer tells her of his name - Beauregard Jackson Pickett Burnside ([[Robert Preston . However, Mame's inability to write up a cash order as opposed to a C.O.D. order gets her fired. Mame roller skates home, dejected because she's unable to pay Ito  and Agnes, who reassure her that they're not going anywhere. Even though it's only a week from Thanksgiving, Mame decides to lift everyone's spirits by decorating the house for Christmas and giving everyone their Christmas gifts , which include Patrick's first pair of long pants. Agnes and Ito surprise Mame with the news that the butcher bill has been paid. Mame promises to pay them back someday. Meanwhile, Beau, who's been looking for Mame since she was fired earlier that day, finally finds Mame's house and invites everyone to dinner, and it's obvious that the two are meant for each other.  Beau brings Mame and Patrick to his plantation in Peckerwood, Georgia, where they're immediately greeted by Sally Cato . However, much of Beau's family, especially Mother Burnside  and Cousin Fan , are not happy about Beau marrying a "Yankee". Sally then invites Mame to a foxhunt. Despite not knowing a thing about horseriding, Mame accepts the invitation. The following day, Mame accidentally wins the fox hunt, despite not knowing what she was doing, and all of Beau's family and friends, except for Sally, sing the praises for Mame. Mame and Beau, now happily married, go on an extended honeymoon, traveling all over the world . Meanwhile, Patrick goes from a young child who pulls in a B+ average to a high school senior  flunking many classes . When an avalanche in the Alps kills Beau, Mame returns home and is reunited with a now-grown Patrick, who is dating a very snobby conservative girl named Gloria Upson . Mame, who decides that she's tired of looking like she's just come from a funeral, goes to reunite with Vera for a drink. The two enjoy some drinks and some snippy comments, which they insist are not being made out of hatred, but simple honesty, as that's what Bosom Buddies do. The two come home and continue to reminisce and discuss men that they've dated. Agnes, who is listening to the conversation, admits that she's never had a date. Mame and Vera decide to give the uptight, frumpy Agnes a makeover and send her out to live, because "Life is a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death.""Sons of bitches" in the musical was changed to "suckers" in the film version. Weaver, David E. "Mame’s Boys: Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee", Ohioana Quarterly, Fall 2006, Ohioana Library Association, accessed September 5, 2012 After Agnes comes out of her bath with her new image, she goes off in a taxicab. Six months later, Agnes returns home, visibly pregnant. At the same time, Mame is currently visiting with her guests, Patrick and Gloria, and they agree to bring Gloria's parents to Mame's home to meet. However, once Patrick sees Agnes, who's hiding in the kitchen, he decides it'd be a better idea for Mame to visit the Upsons at their home, since Patrick is ashamed to have the Upsons see an unwed, pregnant Agnes. Agnes then describes what she did after her big makeover . Mame visits the Upsons  at their home, Upson Downs. She learns there that Patrick and Gloria are engaged. After spending several hours with the Upsons, Mame discovers that she definitely dislikes the family and their overly conservative and bigoted views on everything from African-Americans and onward - they praise their African-American maid, noting that "so many of them are so snotty these days" and ask Mame to help pay for a piece of property next door to Upson Downs so that Patrick and Gloria could live there, as opposed to "the wrong kind of people." When Mame leaves, she confronts Patrick about her disdain for the family, calling him a snob when he admits that he's ashamed of her and her "crazy" friends. A heartbroken Mame drives home, wondering what she did wrong when he was younger . Mame and Patrick apologize to each other off-screen and are dressed for company - the Upsons. Mame promises to behave. Patrick, still embarrassed by Agnes's condition, begs Agnes to stay in her room while the Upsons are there, while Mame reminds her to take her calcium pills. Patrick talks to Mame's new maid, Pegeen , for a moment before the Upsons arrive. After arriving, Mr. and Mrs. Upson announce to Mame that the property they'd wanted had been bought, complaining about being outbid by "some Jew lawyer". Suddenly, Vera and several men barge into Mame's house, singing . Vera toasts to the new couple, mistaking Pegeen for Gloria. At that moment, Agnes comes downstairs because her calcium pills are in the kitchen. Mame invites her to sit with everyone. When Mrs. Upson asks Agnes what Mr. Gooch does, she says "My father's passed away." When Mrs. Upson states that she meant her husband, Agnes declares that she's unwed and that her baby's going to be a little bastard . Suddenly, a large group of unwed pregnant women barge in, singing.  Mame reveals to the Upsons that she bought the property next door so she could build the Beauregarde Burnside Memorial Home For Single Mothers. This is the final straw, and the Upsons leave, angry that Mame isn't "one of them." Patrick, visibly upset, leaves the house. Years later, Patrick and Pegeen are married and have a child, Peter. Mame, who is going on a trip to Siberia, requests that Peter be allowed to go with her. Although Patrick and Pegeen resist at first, once Peter quotes Mame's "life is a banquet" line, they relent. The two get onto a plane, and Patrick states that Mame has not changed and that she's "the Pied Piper." Mame and Peter wave goodbye and go into the plane. The plane takes off, followed by clips of Mame embracing Vera, Agnes, Beau, adult Patrick, and young Patrick .A new teacher organizes a volleyball game to boost school spirit and self confidence while fighting with the conservative school board and chauvinistic principal. Two of her students run away and the teacher's liberal methods and free thinking are blamed. The teacher is fired and tries to sneak away during the volleyball match which she succeeded in pushing through.In this gentle, tragic drama, Olivier  is a wealthy young man. He spends his time building a boat on the lawn with his friend David , a poor fisherman whom he grew up with. Though hardly idyllic, the relative calm provided by their friendship is disrupted by Eleonore , a cute and determined young woman who sets her sights on David. She wants to wean David from his friendship with Olivier and plays on David's long-dormant jealousy of Olivier's wealth and easy life. Eleonore also plays the flipside of the jealousy issue, claiming that Olivier has made passes at her. Vincent Canby: "Adorable Acting, especially by Claude Jade, who brings the right mixture of conventionalism and self-interest into her role."Wendell "Sonny" Lawson  is informed by his doctor  that he's dying from a rare toxic blood disease and has six months to live. Not wanting to endure the inevitable pain, nor wanting to spend his last days in a hospital bed, he decides to take his own life. Sonny decides to resolve several issues with his friends, family and God. He first goes to a church to make a long overdue confession, only to have it heard by a very young, inexperienced priest . Sonny then makes one last visit to each of his loved ones. He discovers that girlfriend Mary Ellen , ex-wife Jessie , daughter Julie , and his parents (Myrna Loy and [[Pat O'Brien  are too absorbed in their own problems to pay him any attention. After a failed suicide attempt with pills, Lawson ends up at a psychiatric hospital. There he befriends a very disturbed fellow patient, Marlon Borunki , who agrees to help in Sonny's quest to end it all. What follows are several more botched suicide attempts, including him trying to hold his breath, crack open his head with his adjustable hospital bed, jump off a tower, and hang himself. Sonny finally decides to escape from the hospital and do it on his own. He drives to a secluded beach, swims out into the ocean and intends to drown. But as he sinks, Sonny begins feeling guilty of abandoning his daughter. Now with a passionate will to live, Sonny swims back, making promises to God along the way that he begins to break as soon as he gets close to shore. Relieved to be alive, Sonny discovers to his horror that Marlon has followed him to the beach, knowing Sonny would chicken out. Marlon begins shooting a gun at him, thinking he is doing his friend a favor. Narrowly escaping, Sonny is finally able to convince a befuddled Marlon that he wants to live. The two of them happily walk along the beach, but Marlon suddenly pulls out a knife and chases Sonny down the shoreline. For one or both men, this could be The End.{{cite web}}The legendary American movie star and sex symbol Marlo Manners  is in London, England, where she has just married for the sixth time. She and her new husband, Sir Michael Barrington , then depart for a honeymoon suite at a posh and exclusive hotel that has been reserved for them by her manager, Dan Turner . The hotel is also the location of an international conference, where leaders have come together to resolve tensions and problems that threaten the survival of the world. As the chairman, Mr. Chambers  is trying to call the meeting to order, the delegates are crowding to the windows in an effort to catch a glimpse of Marlo when she arrives. As they enter the lobby, Marlo, now Lady Barrington, and her husband, a knight, are swarmed by admirers and reporters. When asked, "Do you get a lot of proposals from your male fans?" she quips, "Yeah, and what they propose is nobody’s business." Once inside their suite, the couple are unable to go to bed and have sex because of constant interruptions due to the demands of her career, such as interviews, dress fittings and photo sessions, as well as the various men, including some former husbands, diplomat Alexei Andreyev Karansky , director Laslo Karolny , gangster Vance Norton , and an entire athletic team from the U.S., who all want to have sex with her. Meanwhile, the evil Turner desperately searches for an audiotape containing his client's memoirs, in order to destroy it. Marlo has recorded extensive details about her affairs and scandals, with a lot of dirt about her husbands and lovers. Ex-husband Alexei, who is the Russian delegate at the conference, threatens to derail the intense negotiations unless he can have another sexual encounter with her. Marlo is expected to work "undercover" to ensure world peace.Norma and Malcolm Miochaels are a middle-aged married couple who are in the midst of a midlife crisis. Both decide to separate and begin their lives anew away from each other. However, problems ensue once they discover that they are no longer as young as they used to be.Brenda is a plain young woman who lives at home with her mother in Liverpool and enjoys writing fairy tales for children. One day she tells her mother that she is leaving home and moving to London in order to find a father for her yet unborn baby. Arriving in London, she has some of her belongings knocked out of her hands by an attractive young man  who doesn’t give her a second look. She ends up living in a grubby bedsit before finding a job at a fashionable boutique , and taking a spare room in a flat owned by one of her co-workers, Caroline specifically as she hopes to meet a man at one of Caroline’s many parties. Peter, appears to live with an older, alcoholic woman. He invites her upstairs. She goes into his room and, unseen, starts screaming. After discovering Caroline in bed with another co-worker that she was interested in , Brenda runs crying out of the flat and onto the streets. She comes across a scruffy dog, and sees its owner looking for it. Recognising the young man who had previously bumped into her , she picks up the dog and runs home with it. Unbeknownst to her, Peter sees her do so. Back at the flat, Brenda washes the dog, and pretties it up with a bow. She then uses the address on the dog’s collar to take it back to Peter. He lets her in, and is nice to her, but upsets her when he insists she tell him why she took the dog. She finally admits that it was because she wanted to meet him, and have a baby with him. He suggests that she moves in with him. While she has gone to get her belongings, Peter kills his dog with a utility knife, ostensibly because it is now pretty. Brenda lies to Caroline, telling her that she is moving in with her mother who is ill. After Brenda returns, Peter starts to buy her baby gifts. Meanwhile Brenda’s mother is worried about not hearing from her daughter, and calls her last known number, which is Caroline’s flat. She then visits Caroline, before going to the police. Caroline looks through Brenda’s old room and finds the dog’s broken lead, which has Peter’s address on it. After Brenda has gone out shopping, Caroline arrives at Peter’s house, and eventually they go to bed. Peter then murders her with the utility knife, again because she is too beautiful. When Brenda returns, Peter is alone in the house . Brenda has had a total makeover – hair, clothes, make-up – in order to look beautiful for Peter. He makes it very clear that he loves her exactly the way she was. He tells a fairy story which is interspersed with flashbacks implying that he has killed multiple women. Brenda and Peter go to bed. A few days later Peter reads in the paper that there are missing person reports out on both Brenda and Caroline, and when he gets home he forbids Brenda to go out. Brenda gives signs that she might now be pregnant, and they both seem happy. Peter tells Brenda he has a surprise for her and takes her up to his bedroom, where he plays here a tape of him killing the dog and Caroline. Brenda becomes hysterical. Later Peter sits alone in his house. There is no sign of Brenda.Young babysitter Amanda arrives at the Lloyd residence to spend the evening looking after a young child. Soon after the Lloyds leave, a series of frightening occurrences in the gloomy old house have Amanda's nerves on edge. The real terror begins, however, when the child's biological father appears after recently escaping from a nearby mental institution.Set in the 1900s, the film is about a lone woman, Lena Doyle  who finds herself threatened by tough businessmen who want to take her land which possesses shares of crude oil. Rather than settle and sell the land she rightfully owns, Lena decides to fight and to do this, she asks for the help of her father  and a hired gun named Mason .It tells the story of a romance between a young drifter named Strip Harrison  and an older wealthy woman, Trish Rawlings .Zandy Allan is a hard-working cattle rancher in a remote part of the American West who needs a hired hand more than he needs a wife. He sends away for a mail-order bride, a Swedish woman who lives near Minneapolis. Expecting a woman in her 20s, Zandy is surprised when Hannah Lund turns out to be 32. He is not interested in love, only in work, although this does not keep him from misbehaving around a local woman named Maria. Hannah is here, in his mind, strictly to help Zandy and his family run the ranch. Zandy is unaccustomed to the ways of the world and clearly a fish out of water during a visit to San Francisco. The more time he spends with Hannah, meanwhile, the less he comes to treat her as a mere possession that he has bought.On a summer evening in northern Sweden, when the sun doesn’t quite set, Dunderklumpen  comes out of the woods to seek some friends to keep him company. He comes upon a "human" house of the Wolgers family where Dunderklumpen finds toys belonging to a boy named Jens and his young sister. Using his magic, Dunderklumpen brings the toys to life and takes them away to the woods where he lives. This adorable and amusing crew includes the small but fiercely brave lion Lionel, the demanding toy girl Doll, the cute harmonica-playing bear Pellegnillot, and the ridiculous Dummy the Bunny. But Jens hears and sees the toys crying for help and follows Dunderklumpen who is not so quick to surrender his new-found company. They are also followed by Jens' Father who gose searching for his run-off son and is accompanied by the dutiful Bumblebee. Dunderklumpen also has a small locked chest  with him and believes it contains a great treasure. One-Eye, an old nemesis of Dunderklumpen, also seeks the treasure for himself and pursues our heroes. No one knows what the contents are but Dunderklumpen and One-Eye are both sure it's priceless. Following Dunderklumpen into the woods, Jens meets a flower witch name Blossom who travels on a umbrella and helps him along the way. The gang also meets the flying paper Malte , the living-talking mountain Jorm, and a elderly woman name Elvira Fattigan who's an old friend of One-Eye. In the end One-Eye turns out to be a good guy and soon the chest reveals to contain a feather, a dandelion and a rock that are considered treasures to a child. Realizing the chest had no valuable but cherished treasures, everyone celebrates in song and dance, One-Eye becomes friends with Dunderklumpen, the toys stay behind with the both of them and Jens and his Father return home together.Middle-aged Lilly Moffatt  sets up a school in a Welsh coal mining town, despite the determined opposition of the local squire . Eventually, she considers giving up. Then she discovers a promising student Morgan Evans , a miner seemingly destined for a life of hard work and heavy drink. With renewed hope, she works hard to help him realise his potential. Through diligence and perseverance, Morgan gets the opportunity to take an examination for Oxford University with, hopefully, a prized scholarship. Moffatt, the rest of the teachers, and their students are hopeful Morgan will pass the Oxford interview, and so he does. However, Bessie Watty , a young woman who has recently given birth to Morgan's child, blackmails the faculty into giving her part of Morgan's scholarship money in order to help raise the baby. The conniving young woman has designs on another male suitor. Instead, Moffatt volunteers to adopt the child so that Morgan's academic future will not be ruined and Watty will be free to marry another man, unfettered by her responsibility to the child . Morgan quickly hears about Watty's scandalous, self-serving motives, and insists upon raising the child himself. Through a heartfelt and persuasive conversation, Moffatt convinces the young man to continue his higher education and contribute something to the world.The film opens as Arthur Sinclair, a successful mentalist  is talking on the phone with his much younger wife Allison . She wishes him luck as he departs to give an interview. But she is in fact in bed with another man Gil . Gil is a trying actor in love with Allison and we soon learn that she is planning to have Gil kill Arthur by scaring him to death . Their plan is to have Gil storm the house pretending to be a burglar and than point a gun at Arthur who would die from the shock. The night comes and Gil storms the house but Arthur sees him before he can reach the gun. Gil presents himself as a journalist there to make an interview with Arthur. He and Gil have a hearty conversation and it turns out that both men have something on each other. Gil knows that Arthur is a fake and that he somehow knew the information about a killer in a different town and Arthur knows that Gil is not a journalist. Gil is not panicked by that and he uses Arthur's competitive behavior to make him do 50 push-ups which tires Arthur's heart. Soon Gil draws the gun, the two men struggle, and Arthur apparently shoots Gil. When Allison comes home, he is distraught by the incident; then Gil  comes behind him, and Arthur stumbles across the house and screams in pain ... then laughs and applauds as the two lovers look on. He knew about Gil and Allison for a long time and now he is out to get them, but suddenly Arthur's lawyer and best friend George  comes in the house and it turns out that he is Allison's real lover and Gil was just there to do the dirty work. George shoots Arthur and she and Allison depart. Some time afterwords Allison returns to the house and finds Arthur's body gone. It turns out that Arthur knew about George too. Arthur points the gun at Allison and she asks him what is he going to do to which he replies: "Why don't you read my mind".A widower locks up his two children, afraid that they will go mad, as did his wife. He then invites a doctor of dubious reputation to supervise the young people's mental health. Meanwhile, in the vicinity of the house, grisly murders are happening...The story follows the adventures of the Waterbury children, who are forced to move with their mother  from a luxurious Edwardian villa in the London suburbs to "Three Chimneys", a house near the fictional 'Great Northern and Southern Railway' in the Yorkshire dales, as the father , who works at the Foreign office, has been imprisoned as a result of being falsely accused of selling state secrets to the Russians. The three children, Roberta  , Phylllis  and Peter , find amusement in watching the trains on the nearby railway line and waving to the passengers. They become friendly with Albert Perks , the station porter, and with the Old Gentleman who regularly takes the 9:15 down train. Meanwhile, to earn money to survive during her husband's absence, Mother writes and sells stories to magazines. After many adventures, including saving the lives of dozens of passengers by alerting a train to a landslide, rescuing a Russian dissident, Mr. Szczepansky, and uniting him with his family, and caring for Jim, the grandson of the Old Gentleman, who is injured whilst participating in a paper chase, Bobbie eventually discovers the truth of her father's absence and appeals to the Old Gentleman for his help. He is eventually able to help prove their father's innocence, and the family is reunited.In the early 1970s, the Countess of Ségur's heroines have grown up. They are now teenagers with the usual preoccupations of their age. In the beautiful and peaceful area of Fleurville the good little girls  feel something is missing, which their girlish games cannot really fulfil; "a lack of men ..."Patsy Newquist is a 27-year-old interior designer who lives in a New York rife with street crime, noise, obscene phone calls, power blackouts and unsolved homicides. When she sees a defenseless man being attacked by street thugs, she intervenes, but is surprised when the passive victim doesn't even bother to thank her. She ends up attracted to the man, Alfred Chamberlain, a photographer, but finds that he is emotionally vacant, barely able to feel pain or pleasure. He permits muggers to beat him up until they get tired and go away. Patsy is accustomed to molding men into doing her bidding. Alfred is different. When she brings him home to meet her parents and brother, he is almost non-verbal, except to tell her that he doesn't care for families. He learns that Patsy had another brother who was murdered for no known reason. Patsy's eccentric family is surprised when she announces their intention to wed, then amazed when their marriage ceremony conducted by the atheistic Rev. Dupas turns into a free-for-all. Determined to discover why her new husband is the way he is, Patsy coaxes Alfred into traveling to Chicago to visit his parents. He hasn't seen them since he was 17, but asks them to help with a questionnaire about his childhood at Patsy's request. Alfred ultimately agrees to try to become Patsy's kind of man, the kind willing to "fight back." The instant that happens, a sniper's bullet kills Patsy, again for no apparent reason. A blood-splattered Alfred goes to her parents' apartment, New Yorkers barely noticing his state. He descends into a silent stupor, Patsy's father even having to feed him. A ranting, disturbed police detective, Lt. Practice, drops by, almost unable to function due to the number of unsolved murders in the city. After he leaves, Alfred goes for a walk in the park. He returns with a rifle, which he doesn't know how to load. Patsy's father shows him how. Then the two of them, along with Patsy's brother, take turns shooting people down on the street.An American ballet student, Suzy Banyon , arrives from her flight in Munich, Germany on a stormy night to enroll in a prestigious dance academy in Freiburg. After Suzy is unable to gain access into the academy, she decides to spend the night in town. Meanwhile, Pat Hingle , a former student who is expelled from the academy and seen leaving the academy in a somewhat frightened mood by Suzy, finds refuge at a friend's apartment in town. After Pat locks herself inside of the bathroom, a mysterious arm smothers Pat against the glass and repeatedly stabs her with a large knife and then graphically disembowels her. Her friend overhears her screaming and tries to scream for help, although nobody replies. Pat is then bound with a cord before she is hung in mid-air after crashing through a large stained-glass ceiling. Her friend is killed directly below by the falling glass and metal. Upon Suzy's arrival at the academy the next morning, she is introduced to Madame Blanc  and Miss Tanner . She is escorted to the ballet students' locker room, where she meets Sarah  and Olga , the latter with whom she has arranged to stay with off-campus. The following morning, Blanc offers Suzy a dormitory room, but she declines Blanc's offer. After a strange encounter with the academy's cook , Suzy seemingly struggles before fainting during a lesson. Later that night, Suzy awakens to discover that she has been moved into a dormitory room against her wishes. The doctors then tell Suzy that she is to be "medicated" with a glass of wine daily. Suzy befriends Sarah after the two are roomed together. As Suzy and the rest of the students prepare for dinner, hundreds of maggots fall from the ceiling. The students are told this was due to spoiled food boxed in the attic. The girls are then invited to sleep in the practice hall overnight. During the night, Sarah identifies a distinctive whistling snore as that of the school's director, who is not due to return to the academy for several weeks. The next morning, Tanner orders Daniel to leave the academy immediately after his guide dog bites Albert. Later that night, Sarah overhears the teacher's footsteps and begins to count them whilst Suzy becomes irresistibly drowsy and falls asleep. Meanwhile, while Daniel and his guide dog cross a plaza within the city, Daniel senses a strange presence. Suddenly, his seemingly calm dog lunges at Daniel and tears his throat out, killing him. The next day, Suzy recalls the words "iris" and "secret" from Pat's mumbling before leaving the academy. Later that night, Suzy and Sarah go for a swim while Sarah reveals to Suzy that she and Pat were close friends, and recalls that Pat had been "talking strangely for some time". The two girls search for Pat's notes in Sarah's room, but they appear to have been stolen. Suzy suddenly becomes drowsy and falls asleep before Sarah flees to the attic after hearing approaching footsteps. Sarah is chased by an unseen pursuer and, thinking she will be able to escape through a window into another room, falls into a huge pile of barbed wire. Becoming entangled, she struggles in anguish until a mysterious black-gloved hand of a dark figure appears and slits her throat. The following morning, Blanc and Tanner inform Suzy that Sarah has abruptly left the academy. Confused and suspicious, Suzy goes to meet one of Sarah's acquaintances, a psychologist named Dr. Mandel , who explains that the academy was founded by Helena Markos, a cruel Greek émigré who was widely believed to be a witch. Dr. Mandel's colleague, Professor Millus, then tells Suzy that a coven can only survive with their queen. Upon Suzy's return to the academy that night, she discovers that all of the students have gone to the theater. She overhears the footsteps Sarah identified before and follows them to Blanc's office. She suddenly recalls Pat's mumbling after discovering irises painted all over the walls of Blanc's office. After entering a hidden passage, she discovers Blanc, Tanner and the staff forming a ritual where they plot Suzy's death. Unseen, Suzy then turns to find Sarah's body nailed to a coffin. Frightened, Suzy then sneaks into another room, where she accidentally awakens a shadowy figure who reveals herself as Helena Markos. Helena then orders Sarah's nearby corpse to rise from the dead to murder Suzy. Suzy then stabs Helena with one of the room's decorative knives, which appears to kill her  and Sarah's reanimated corpse. Helena's demise causes the building to set alight. As the academy is slowly destroyed with the coven inside, Suzy manages to escape before the entire building catches on fire.The film takes place in Berlin in 1940, during World War II as Adolf Hitler is at the height of his power. Anna and Otto Quangel, a working class couple, live in Berlin in simple circumstances and are not particularly interested in politics. Then, their only son is killed in action during the Battle of France and as they grieve for their son, the desire to resist the Nazi regime grows within them. When a Jewish neighbor is also killed, Anna decides to actively join the German Resistance. She begins writing very personal flyers on postcards, which she at first alone, and then with her husband, leaves in public places and slips into mailboxes. The two are discovered and are arrested and eventually sentenced to death. Otto Quangel commits suicide in the courtroom with a cyanide pill; his wife is executed two months later.The lawyer Mazzacolli wants to get his hands on the properties of a countess  and, helped by a local nobleman , staged the kidnapping of the countess' retarded child who had asked for her hand . The move would force the hand of the countess, particularly for granting the usufruct of the property to her future husband. Mazzacolli did not reckoned with love, that unpredictable changes ideas and situations.{{cite news}}The story begins with Simon Robinson arriving in a small seaside community to take over as teacher at the local school. He makes the acquaintance of siblings Jenny and David Abbott , and Jenny's daughter Sally, who live on the island estate of Summerfield. The discoveries that his predecessor vanished without a trace and that Sally has a rare blood disorder lead Simon to try to discover the truth behind the mystery.The story, narrated by a criminologist, tells the tale of newly-engaged couple Brad Majors and Janet Weiss, who find themselves lost and with a flat tire on a cold and rainy late November evening. Seeking a phone with which to call for help, Brad and Janet walk to a nearby castle, where they discover a group of strange and outlandish people who are holding an Annual Transylvanian Convention. Brad and Janet watch as the Transylvanians, servants and a tap-dancing groupie dance the film's signature song, "Time Warp". They are soon swept into the world of Dr. Frank-N-Furter, a self-proclaimed "Sweet Transvestite" from Transsexual, Transylvania. The ensemble of convention attendees also includes servants Riff Raff , his sister Magenta, and a groupie named Columbia. Frank claims to have discovered the "secret to life itself". His creation, Rocky Horror, is brought to life. The ensuing celebration is soon interrupted by Eddie , an ex-delivery boy, partial brain donor to Rocky, and Columbia's lover, who rides out of a deep freeze on a motorcycle. In a jealous rage, Frank corners him and kills him with an ice axe. He then departs with Rocky to a bridal suite off of the laboratory. Brad and Janet are shown to separate bedrooms where each is visited and seduced by Frank, who poses as Brad  and then as Janet . Janet, upset and emotional, wanders off to look for Brad, who she discovers, via a television monitor, is having a post-coital chat with Frank. She then discovers Rocky, cowering in his birth tank, hiding from Riff Raff, who has been tormenting him. While tending to his wounds, Janet becomes intimate with Rocky, as Magenta and Columbia watch from their bedroom monitor. After discovering that his creation is missing, Frank, Brad and Riff Raff return to the lab, where Frank learns that an intruder has entered the building. Dr. Everett Scott, Brad and Janet's old high school science teacher, has come looking for his nephew, Eddie, but Frank suspects that Dr. Scott investigates UFOs for the government. Upon learning of Brad and Janet's connection to Scott, Frank suspects them of working for him. Frank, Dr. Scott, Brad, and Riff Raff then discover Janet and Rocky together under the sheets in Rocky's birth tank, upsetting Frank and Brad. Rocky and the guests are served dinner, which they soon realise has been prepared from Eddie's mutilated body. Janet runs screaming into Rocky's arms and is slapped and chased through the halls of the castle by a jealous Frank. Janet, Brad, Dr. Scott, Rocky and Columbia all meet in Frank's lab, where Frank captures them with the Medusa Transducer, transforming them into statues. They are then forced to perform a live cabaret floor show and have a semi-orgy in the pool , with Frank as the leader. The performance is interrupted by Riff Raff and Magenta, who stage a coup and announce their plan to return to their home planet. In the process, they kill Columbia, Rocky and Frank. They release Brad, Janet and Dr. Scott, and then depart by lifting off in the Castle itself. The narrator then finishes the film by concluding that the human race is equivalent to insects crawling on the planet's surface.At a luxury hotel in Djerba, Tunisia, psychic magician Vestar  meets the dark Edouard .{{cite web}} Heading to the hotel, Vestar has a vision of a woman being murdered in the desert. Edouard, a member of the leisure class, decides to use his influence to make the dream become a reality. Also staying at the resort are Sadry, returning  who has come home to visit his dying mother, and his annoying wife Sylvia . Also there is Martine , an ex-lover of Sabry who would like to get back together with him. The marriage is further strained when Sylvia finds the two of them together. It appears that the prophesied murder has something to do with Sylvia. Specific details from Vestar's prediction about her death are used by Edouard to make it happen, although in fact his interference alters the results. Sadry comes to terms with her tensions and anger as events build toward the inevitable.Brian Cohen is born in a stable a few doors from the one in which Jesus is born, which initially confuses the three wise men who come to praise the future King of the Jews. Brian grows up an idealistic young man who resents the continuing Roman occupation of Judea. While attending Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, Brian becomes infatuated with an attractive young rebel, Judith. His desire for her and hatred for the Romans lead him to join the People's Front of Judea , one of many fractious and bickering independence movements, who spend more time fighting each other than the Romans. After several misadventures, and escaping from Pontius Pilate, the fugitive winds up in a lineup of would-be mystics and prophets who harangue the passing crowd in a plaza. Forced to come up with something plausible in order to blend in and keep the guards off his back, Brian babbles pseudo-religious truisms, and quickly attracts a small but intrigued audience. Once the guards have left, Brian tries to put the episode behind him, but he has unintentionally inspired a movement. He grows frantic when he finds that some people have started to follow him around, with even the slightest unusual occurrence being hailed as a "miracle". After slipping away from the mob, Brian runs into Judith, and they spend the night together. In the morning, Brian opens the curtains to discover an enormous crowd of people outside his mother's house, all proclaiming him to be the Messiah. Brian's mother protests: "He's not the Messiah, he's a very naughty boy". Brian finds himself unable to change their minds, because his every word and action are immediately seized as points of doctrine. Neither can the hapless Brian find solace back at the PFJ's headquarters, where people fling their afflicted bodies at him demanding miracle cures. After sneaking out the back, Brian finally is captured and scheduled to be crucified. Meanwhile, a huge crowd has assembled outside the palace. Pilate  tries to quell the feeling of revolution by granting them the decision of who should be pardoned. The crowd, however, simply shouts out names containing the letter "r", in order to mock Pilate's speech impediment. Eventually, Judith appears in the crowd and calls for the release of Brian, which the crowd echoes, since the name contains the letter "r". Pilate then agrees to "welease Bwian". The order from Pilate is eventually relayed to the guards, but in a moment parodying the climax of the film Spartacus, various crucified people all claim to be "Brian of Nazareth"  and the wrong man is released. Various other opportunities for a reprieve for Brian are denied as, one by one, his "allies"  step forward to explain why they are leaving the "noble freedom fighter" hanging in the hot sun. Hope is renewed when the Judean People's Front come charging towards the Romans, but fail to rescue Brian, as they are a suicide squadron, and kill themselves rather than dying in battle. Condemned to a long and painful death, Brian finds his spirits lifted by his fellow sufferers, who break into song with "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life".Alan Parker, Mick O'Shea  And Now For Something Completely Digital: The Complete Illustrated Guide to Monty Python CDs and DVDs The Disinformation Company, 2006{{plot}} Lucy Westenra spies on her sister Mina saying farewell to the latter's fiancée, Jonathan Harker. He is leaving on a business trip to Transylvania. The scene then shifts to the Borgo Pass where Harker is left alone by the local driver. He flatly refuses to wait for Harker and tosses his luggage out before driving away. Soon, another carriage approaches, from Castle Dracula  but the coachman does not speak. After reaching the ruined castle, Harker emerges and the coach drives away. Then Dracula himself opens the door for him, uttering the famous line "Welcome to my house. Enter freely and of your own will." Harker, a solicitor, is there to expedite Count Dracula's purchase of several properties in England, including Carfax Abbey. The Count is urbane and gracious, but also vaguely sinister. He insists Harker stay for a month to tutor him on the finer points of English. As time goes by, Harker witnesses increasingly bizarre events. The Count—who has fangs and long fingernails—casts no reflection in the mirror. Twice Harker spots the Count crawling head first down the outside wall of the castle, seemingly defying gravity. Finally, he violates the Count's rules and goes to sleep in the library, where three beautiful women appear and seem to entrance him—until interrupted by Dracula himself, who gives the three a baby, which they devour. Harker explores and finds the Count asleep in a coffin, then tries to kill him with a shovel . In England, Mina and Lucy go to the seaside town of Whitby and befriend an old sailor named Swales who tells them stories. One day, the three of them are atop a hill as a storm approaches, and the sailor notes a ship is in the storm, en route. This ship is the Demeter, which goes aground. Swales is found dead the next morning, at the very spot where he'd last seen and chatted with Mina and Lucy. Dr. John Seward, owner of a local asylum, is friendly with the Westenra family as well as Quincey Holmwood, an American diplomat who has become engaged to Lucy. Among Seward's patients is the madman Renfield who is somehow aware of Dracula's arrival, and worships  him. Then, one night, Lucy goes sleepwalking into the local graveyard. Mina follows and briefly spots Dracula holding Lucy in his arms. From that night on, Lucy begins to change. She grows pale and weak, but rallies after sunset, and also begins to sport tiny fangs. While everyone worries over her, she welcomes Dracula to her bedroom where he drinks her blood. Seward finally call on his friend Abraham Van Helsing for help with Lucy's strange illness. He almost immediately recognizes the signs and protects the girl's bedroom with garlic. Meanwhile, Mina receives word that Jonathan has turned up in a convent in Budapest, weak and delirious . She goes to be with, and marry him. While she is gone, a final attack happens at the Westenra home as a wolf crashes through Lucy's bedroom window. The shock kills her mother . When found, Lucy is sprawled across the bed, pale and nearly dead. As she fades, her manner shifts from her pure self to a kind of wild voluptuousness. When she finally dies, Van Helsing notices the wounds on her throat have vanished—and that she no longer casts a reflection. Mina returns, deeply saddened at the loss of her family. Van Helsing takes Seward to Lucy's grave near dawn. They find a child nearby, dazed and talking about the "Bloofer lady"  and with tell-tale fang marks on his throat. Van Helsing insists Seward and Quincey accompany him to Lucy's grave, where they see her approach—blood on her lips and gown. She speaks lovingly to Quincey, who nearly succumbs but flees when Van Helsing shows her a cross. In the tomb, Van Helsing explains what must be done and Quincey drives a wooden stake into Lucy's heart. Later, the professor fills her mouth with garlic and cuts off her head. Harker, Van Helsing, Seward and Quincey all go to Carfax Abbey to sterilize the boxes of his native earth Dracula has had shipped there. They don't realize that now Dracula is visiting Mina and has bitten her. But Renfield does realize, and seeks to warn her and Seward. In revenge Dracula kills him, but before he dies Renfield manages to warn the men—who rush to Mina's bedroom, only to find her drinking blood from Dracula's chest. Dracula himself vanishes as they enter. Mina becomes hysterical, especially after Van Helsing touches her forehead with a piece of Holy Wafer and it sears her flesh. From that moment on, until Dracula's demise, she carries the scar as well as slightly noticeable fangs. As they continue to find Dracula's boxes, rendering them useless to him with crosses and the Host, they realize he must flee back to his castle. They follow. Eventually, Van Helsing and Mina go directly overland to the Castle while the others follow Dracula's coffin, transported by Gypsies. In the Transylvanian wilderness, Dracula's brides approach the pair, but Van Helsing draws a circle around them, filling it with pieces of Holy Wafer. The Brides cannot pass, although they call to Mina to join them, naming her "Sister". The next morning, Van Helsing goes into the Castle, driving wooden stakes in each of the Brides' hearts . Finally, there is a chase. Harker, Seward and Quincey are chasing the carriage that carries Dracula's coffin. In the process, they must fight Gypsies loyal to Dracula. At one point, Harker is saved when Mina shoots a threatening Gypsy with a rifle. With hardly a moment to spare, the pursuers reach the coffin and pull off its cover. Inside, Dracula smiles noticing that it is almost sunset. But Van Helsing drives a long wooden stake into the vampire's heart, and his body erupts into a mini-sandstorm. All that is left are his clothes and ashes.Norma Rae Webster is a minimum-wage worker in a cotton mill that has taken too much of a toll on the health of her family for her to ignore her Dickensian working conditions. After hearing a speech by New York union organizer Reuben Warshowsky, Norma Rae decides to join the effort to unionize her shop. This causes conflict at home when Norma Rae's husband Sonny says she's not spending enough time in the home. Despite the pressure brought to bear by management, when confronted, Norma Rae takes a piece of cardboard, writes the word "UNION", stands on her worktable, and slowly turns to show the sign around the room. One by one, other workers stop their mill machines, and eventually, the entire room becomes silent, after all machines have been switched off. Norma Rae then successfully orchestrates an election to unionize the factory, resulting in victory for the union. The story is based on Crystal Lee Sutton's life as a textile worker in Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina, where the battle for the workers union took place against a J.P Stevens Textile mill. Her actual protest, in the mill, is the scene in the film where she writes the sign "UNION" and stands on her worktable until all machines are silent. Although Sutton was fired from her job, the mill became unionized, and she later went to work as an organizer for the textile union.Told in flashback, it is the story of Katie Morosky and Hubbell Gardiner, who meet at college in the 1930s. Their differences are immense: she is a stridently vocal Marxist Jew with strong anti-war opinions, and he is a carefree WASP with no particular political bent. She is drawn to him because of his boyish good looks and his natural writing skill, which she finds captivating, although he doesn't work very hard at it. He is intrigued by her conviction and her determination to persuade others to take up social causes. They meet, romantically, for the first time on the night that the Duke of Windsor marries Mrs. Simpson. The two meet again at the end of World War II. Katie is working at a radio station, and Hubbell, having served as a naval officer in the South Pacific, is trying to return to civilian life. They fall in love and marry despite the differences in their background and temperament. Soon, however, Katie is incensed by the cynical jokes Hubbell's friends make and is unable to understand his acceptance of their insensitivity and shallow dismissal of political engagement. At the same time, his serenity is disturbed by her lack of social graces and her polarizing postures. When Hubbell seeks a job as a Hollywood screenwriter, Katie believes he's wasting his talent and encourages him to pursue writing as a serious challenge instead. Despite her growing frustration, they move to California, where he becomes a successful albeit desultory screenwriter, and the couple enjoy an affluent lifestyle. As the Hollywood blacklist grows and McCarthyism begins to encroach on their lives, Katie's political activism resurfaces, jeopardizing Hubbell's position and reputation. Alienated by Katie's persistent abrasiveness, Hubbell has an affair with Carol Ann, his college girlfriend and the ex-wife of his best friend J.J., even though Katie is pregnant. Katie and Hubbell decide to part when she finally understands he is not the man she idealized when she fell in love with him and will always choose the easiest way out, whether it is cheating in his marriage or writing predictable stories for sitcoms. Hubbell, on the other hand, is exhausted, unable to live on the pedestal Katie erected for him and face her disappointment in his decision to compromise his potential. In the film's final scene, Katie and Hubbell meet by chance, several years after their divorce, in front of the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Hubbell, who is with a stylish beauty and apparently content, is now writing for a popular sitcom as one of a group of nameless writers. Katie has remained faithful to who she is: flyers in hand, she is agitating for the newest political causes. Katie, now re-married, invites Hubbell to come for a drink with his lady friend, but he confesses he can't. Katie's response acknowledges what they both finally understand: Hubbell was at his best when he was with her, and no one will ever believe in him or see as much promise in him as she once did. Their past is behind them; all the two share now, besides their daughter, whom they name Rachel, is a memory of the way they were.Dr. Jenny Isaksson  is a psychiatrist married to another psychiatrist; both are successful in their jobs but slowly, agonizingly, Jenny succumbs to a breakdown. She is haunted by images and emotions from her past and eventually cannot function, either as a wife, a doctor or as an individual.The story begins on October 31, 1963, in fictional Haddonfield, Illinois, with Michael Myers  looking through a window, at his older teenage sister, Judith Myers , and her boyfriend kissing in the living room. The boyfriend pulls away from Judith, and asks if they are alone. Judith quickly glances around, musing that Michael is no doubt around the house. The two teenagers then decide to go upstairs. When Michael sees the light go off in Judith's bedroom window, he enters the kitchen and takes a butcher knife out of a drawer. After Judith's boyfriend goes home, Michael enters Judith's room and stabs her repeatedly until she falls down dead. He then walks downstairs and out the front door with the knife in his hand. Once outside, a car pulls up, and the occupants are soon revealed to be his parents. His father pulls off the mask to reveal a six-year-old boy, and the camera slowly pans out as both parents stare at him in horror. Following the murder, Michael is sent to Smith's Grove Sanitarium, where he is placed under the care of psychiatrist Dr. Samuel Loomis . Michael enters a state of catatonia and remains that way for the next fifteen years. Loomis, accompanied by nurse Marion Chambers  arrives at the sanitarium on October 30, 1978 to bring Michael to a court hearing, but he escapes, stealing the car that Chambers was driving, attacking her in the process and makes his way back to Haddonfield, killing a tow truck driver for his clothes. Loomis follows him there, attempting to prevent Michael from murdering anyone else. The following day--Halloween--high school student Laurie Strode  continually sees Michael, now wearing dark blue coveralls and a white mask, first at her school, then on the street. Laurie's friends, Annie Brackett  and Lynda van der Klok , dismiss Laurie's concerns. Then, later at her house, she sees Michael outside, in the yard, staring into her room. Laurie is startled, but then dismisses it thinking it was a neighbor. Meanwhile, Dr. Loomis goes to the local cemetery, and is guided by the groundskeeper to the grave plot of Judith Myers. The groundskeeper becomes angry when he discovers a missing headstone, and looks down at his papers. He then looks up at Dr. Loomis, and tells him that the missing headstone belonged to Judith Myers. Upon hearing this news, Dr. Loomis mutters under his breath, "He came home." Later on, Annie's father, Sheriff Leigh Brackett , is approached by Loomis, and the two quietly look for Michael. That night, Laurie babysits a boy named Tommy Doyle , while Annie babysits a girl named Lindsey Wallace  across the street from the Doyle house. Michael methodically stalks Annie and kills Lindsey's dog. When Annie gets a call from her boyfriend, Paul, to pick him up, she takes Lindsey to the Doyle house. Annie gets in her car to pick up Paul but she is killed by Michael, who strangles and slits her throat with a knife. Meanwhile at the Doyle House, Tommy spots Michael carrying Annie's body back into the house. He thinks Michael is the bogeyman and tries to tell Laurie, who dismisses his claims. Later, Lynda and her boyfriend, Bob, enter the house unaware that Michael is inside. They then retire into the bedroom, where they have sex. Afterwards, Michael impales Bob onto the wall with a kitchen knife, then strangles Lynda with a telephone cord as she talks on the phone with Laurie. The disturbing disruption to the phone call concerns Laurie even further. Feeling unsettled, Laurie enters the Wallace house after the murders. She sees the dead bodies of her friends that Michael has killed and hidden. Michael has placed his sister Judith's headstone behind Annie's body. Suddenly, Laurie is attacked by Michael and falls backwards down the staircase. She runs out of the house, and tries to get someone to help her, only to be ignored. Eventually, she flees back to the Doyle house, but the door is locked, so she has to tell Tommy to open the door quickly as Michael slowly walks toward the house. Luckily, Tommy opens the door in time and lets Laurie inside. Laurie then instructs the children to hide and then realizes that the phone is dead, and that Michael has gotten into the house through a window. As she sits down in horror next to the couch, her hand falls on a knitting needle. Michael appears and tries to stab her, but she counterattacks his move, and stabs him in the neck with the knitting needle, and he collapses by the window. Laurie makes her way to an upstairs bedroom and locks herself in a closet, but Michael breaks a hole in the door. Laurie attacks by poking Michael in the eye with a clothes hanger, and then stabs Michael in the chest with his own knife. Michael collapses and Laurie exits the closet. Meanwhile, outside, Dr. Loomis sees Tommy and Lindsey running away from the house and suspects that Michael could be in the house. Michael gets up and tries to strangle Laurie, but she is saved by Dr. Loomis, who shoots Michael six times in the chest. Michael falls from the second-story window, onto the lawn below. When Dr. Loomis looks over the balcony, however, Michael's body is missing. Laurie begins to cry as Loomis looks out suspiciously into the night. Michael's masked breathing is heard as previous locations of the movie are shown.A scientist  experiments on a fetus, accelerating its growth within weeks into a beautiful young woman . The woman becomes his protégé - the lessons culminating one night in sex. But when she becomes pregnant, the woman begins to age rapidly. From there things go horribly wrong.Adela is a 43-year-old spinster who lives quietly alone in an isolated northern provincial Spanish village. With no other accomplishments of a "lady of rank" and a small annuity, she spends her days sewing and doing charity work. Never feeling particularly attracted to men, she is waited upon in her home by a faithful lady's maid named Isabelita, who adores her. One day, the local bank manager starts to court Adela and sets his sights on marriage. Adela, repelled by the physical contact of her suitor, resolves, after an argument with her Isabelita over the situation, to consult a doctor. Adela fires Isabelita, but sees the doctor anyway. Adela discovers after the consultation that she is not a woman after all, but a man. The former Adela takes then a new masculine identity as "Juan", and moves from the village to Madrid. Juan arrives in Madrid and accidentally meets Isabelita, the servant girl he fired when he was Adela. Juan searches for a job and a new purpose in his life with his new identity. Life is very hard in Madrid and Juan uses his sewing skills to bring him a small income and enable him to obtain a work permit. However, he has problems securing an identity card. As Juan prospers, he falls in love with Isabelita, but denies himself consummation of their affair for fear of a poor sexual response. Eventually, Juan is able to fulfill his duties as a man and is successful with Isabelita. While making love to her, he warns that one day he will tell her a secret. Isabelita says then: "There is no need, señorita", showing that she has known for sometime his secret.Laura Rambotham is sent to attend boarding school in Melbourne at the turn of the century. During her second year she tells everyone about a made up romance between herself and the school's minister, Reverend Shepherd. She forms an attachment with an older girl, Evelyn. When Evelyn leaves, Laura throws herself into her studies and wins the school literary and music prizes.Shampoo is set during a 24-hour period in 1968, on the eve of a presidential election that would result in Richard Nixon's election to the American presidency. George Roundy  is a successful Beverly Hills hairdresser, whose occupation and charisma have provided him the perfect platform from which to meet, and bed, beautiful women, including his current girlfriend Jill . Despite this, George is dissatisfied with his professional life; he is clearly the creative star of the salon, but is forced to play second fiddle to the "nickel-and-diming," mediocre hairdresser who owns the place. He dreams of setting up his own salon business, but lacking the cash to do so, turns to wealthy lover Felicia  and her unsuspecting husband Lester  to bankroll him. George's meeting with Lester supplies a second secret for him to keep from his would-be benefactor: Lester's current mistress, Jackie , is George's former girlfriend, perhaps the most serious relationship he has ever had. Lester, who assumes George is gay, invites him to escort Jackie to a Republican Party election night soiree, at which George finds himself in the same room as a number of present and former sexual partners. The principals adjourn to a posh counterculture party, and the night quickly descends into drugs, alcohol and sexual indulgence. In the film's dramatic climax, Lester and Jill happen upon George and Jackie having vigorous sex on a kitchen floor. Just before their identities are revealed, an impressed Lester exclaims: "Now, that's what I call fucking!" When Jill recognizes the writhing couple, she throws a chair at them; as George backpedals, trying to placate Jill, Jackie sees him for the cad he is, and flees. George realizes that Jackie is his true love and proposes to her. By then, however, it is too late: Jackie announces that Lester is divorcing Felicia and taking Jackie to Acapulco. With Felicia gone, Jill gone, and now Jackie gone, the film thus pairs sexual revelation with George's deeper moral development, but ends bleakly for the protagonist, despite his epiphany.Lauren King  is a highly intelligent 13-year-old American girl living in Paris with her affluent family. She spends her free time reading Heidegger. Daniel Michon  is a highly intelligent 13-year-old French boy from a poor family who loves Hollywood films and who uses his talent with mathematics to make theoretical bets on horse races. The two meet at a museum where a movie is being filmed, and they fall in love. Lauren's self-absorbed mother  fiercely objects to the romance, seeing him as a "filthy French boy" unsuitable for her daughter. When Daniel punches the egomaniacal director boyfriend of Lauren's mother, the two are forbidden to date. Lauren and Daniel meet Julius , a kindly elderly gentleman and a pickpocket, who tells them about a tradition that if a couple kiss beneath the Bridge of Sighs in Venice at sunset while the church bells toll, they will be in love forever. Knowing that she will be sent back to America soon, she initiates a plan for them to travel to Venice together. With the help of Julius, the two young lovers take a train to Venice and spark an international chase.Cult director Jesus Franco's Swiss-West German production is a women's prison tale, with Lina Romay as Maria who is jailed after killing her father, played by director Jesus Franco,{{cite book}} who tries to rape her. Lesbian wardens, torture, nudity, sex, insanity, conspiracy and a downbeat twist ending round out the formula.The film compiles three stories, each named for part of the main title. The first, "Fe" , is the story of a woman who travels to a distant town seeking a miracle to save her husband from disease. On the journey she is raped by fellow pilgrims; returning home she finds that the miracle has taken place and her husband is well. She vows to make the pilgrimage again the next year. The second story, "Esperanza" , concerns a man who consents to be nailed to a cross as part of "JesusChrist" freak show, hoping to help his mother. Unfortunately he is unable to afford the silver nails that would have helped him avoid infection. The final story, "Caridad" , stars Katy Jurado as a humble woman facing a lack of charity from those in authority. She comes into conflict with her son over a childish fight, and her husband is killed.Two high school students have romantic feelings for each other at a time when such relationships are not allowed at their age. Traveling together by train together to school every day, they promise to spend their future together. When the boy returns from military duty to visit the girl, he discovers she has died from pneumonia. He rides the train they took together and recalls their past.<ref namehttp://www.kmdb.or.kr/eng/md_basic.asp?nation02964|title2009-07-15|publisher=Korean Movie Database  }}The film follows a bored, upper class group of Parisians who embark on a series of affairs with each other.The story begins on the Mitchell Winery in Northern California. Lassie lives with Clovis Mitchell and his grandchildren, Chris and Kelly, but is discovered one day by her former owner. Lassie is taken back to the previous owner's estate in Colorado Springs. Dissatisfied with her new home, the dog runs away and travels across several states to be with the Mitchell family again.The film follows music teacher Marcus Daly  as he investigates the violent murder of psychic medium Helga Ulmann , which he witnesses in an apartment building. Other major characters are introduced early, including Daly's friend Carlo , Ulmann's associate Dr. Giordani  and reporter Gianna Brezzi , with whom Daly begins an affair. After his attempt to rescue the medium fails, Daly realizes he has seen a certain painting among a group of portraits on the wall of the victim's apartment, but it seems to have disappeared when the police arrive. Later in the film, he also initially overlooks another clue that causes him to discover a mouldering corpse walled up in a derelict house. One murder leads to a series of others as Daly's obsession with this vital clue that he fails to understand endangers his life and that of everyone with whom he comes into contact. Among those killed are Giordani, Amanda Righetti  and Carlo. The killing of Helga Ulmann is prefaced by a child's doggerel tune, the same music that accompanies the film's opening sequence in which two shadowy figures struggle until one of them is stabbed to death. The music serves as the murderer's calling card. When Daly hears it in his own apartment soon after becoming involved in the case he is able to foil his attacker. Later, he plays the tune to Giordani, a psychiatrist, who theorizes that the music is important because it probably played an integral part in a traumatic event in the killer's past. The doctor's theory is of course correct, as the identity of the killer is finally revealed as Carlo's insane mother Martha . When Carlo was still a child, he watched as she murdered her husband when he tried to have her committed to a mental hospital, then entomb his body in a room of their house. Daly's discovery of the corpse is one of the film's most dramatic moments. In the climax, Martha confronts Marcus and tries to kill him. Wielding a butchering knife, Martha chases him around the complex and into a room with an elevator. Marcus is stabbed in the shoulder by the knife, and kicks Martha toward the elevator shaft. A long necklace she wears catches in the bars of the shaft, and she is decapitated when Daly summons the lift. The film ends with Daly staring into the resultant pool of blood.Recent divorcée Gloria Mundy  is a San Francisco librarian. While attending a party, she is encouraged by a friend to leave herself open to new experiences. On the way home, Gloria picks up an attractive man named Bob "Scotty" Scott  when she encounters him and his disabled car on Highway 1. She impulsively invites him to join her at the movies that evening, and before they part ways he asks her to take his pack of cigarettes in order to help him curb his smoking. Unbeknownst to her, Scotty has secreted a roll of film in the pack. That evening, a seriously wounded Scotty meets Gloria in the theater and warns her to "beware of the dwarf" before dying. When his body mysteriously disappears while Gloria seeks help from the theater manager, she is unable to convince anyone of what has transpired. At the end of the following work day, Gloria is attacked in the library by albino Whitey Jackson . She manages to escape and seeks refuge with Stanley Tibbets , a would-be ladies' man who assumes she is picking him up to have sex. Shocked by his misunderstanding, she flees and returns to her apartment, where she is attacked by a man with a scar who demands the cigarette pack Bob had given her. When he attempts to strangle her with a scarf, Gloria stabs him in the stomach with a pair of knitting needles and calls the police for help. When her attacker tries to stop her, he is killed by Whitey through the kitchen window, and Gloria faints. When she awakens, all traces of what has happened have disappeared, and she is unable to convince San Francisco Police detectives Tony Carlson  and his partner Inspector "Fergie" Ferguson  or even her landlord Mr. Hennessy  that she was attacked. Gloria is abducted by Turk Farnum , the chauffeur of a limousine in which she earlier had seen Whitey riding, but she manages to subdue him with Mace and brass knuckles given to her by her friend and fellow library employee, Stella . Later, Tony takes her to his Sausalito houseboat, where the two become involved romantically. Upon further investigation, Tony discovers that a contract killer named Rupert Stiltskin  was under investigation by an undercover detective named Bob "Scotty" Scott, who had received a tip that a major assassination would take place in the city on a certain night. Lt. Carlson is now assigned to protect Gloria from her would-be killers. When Tony and Fergie discover that the limousine is registered to the Archdiocese of San Francisco, they visit the office of Archbishop Thorncrest , unaware that the man they're interviewing is in fact the Archbishop's twin brother Charlie, who is involved in a plot to assassinate Pope Pius XIII  during his upcoming visit to San Francisco. Charlie has murdered his twin in order to impersonate him. The following day, Rupert kidnaps Fergie and uses him to lure Gloria into a trap. She manages to hide in a massage parlor, where she encounters Stanley yet again, but then is found and abducted by Jackson and Stiltskin. At Gloria's request, Stella has researched an organization known as the Tax the Churches League, and discovered that the League is a radical fringe group, founded by one Delia Darrow and her husband. For the Darrows, organized religion is a corrupt, greedy sham involving powerful billion-dollar corporations. Stella gives the results of her findings to Tony, who returns to the Archbishop's residence with Mr. Hennessy. Sneaking into the basement, Tony discovers the imprisoned Fergie, who informs him that Stiltskin was hired by the Darrows to assassinate the Pope during a performance of The Mikado at the San Francisco Opera House that evening. Tony is attacked by Rupert and kills him in self-defense, but then is held at gunpoint along with Gloria by the fake archbishop's assistant Gerda Caswell ([[Rachel Roberts , who is really Delia Darrow. Darrow then details her "contingency plan" to eliminate the Pope: If His Holiness is not yet terminated at the end of Act I, Whitey Jackson will open fire from one of the auditorium's two organ bays . Mr. Hennessy knocks out Charlie and defeats Delia in a martial arts duel, and Tony and Gloria race to the Opera House, having some unusual problems along the way. After making it backstage, Gloria is grabbed by Jackson, who kills one of several security guards who have joined the pursuit. An enraged Gloria attempts to attack Jackson, who simply shoves her to the floor. This gives Tony the room he needs to shoot the albino, thus thwarting the plan to kill the Pope. As the performance ends, Gloria and Tony are revealed onstage along with the now-dead bodies of Jackson and the guard, but the Pope, who seems not to have noticed anything unusual, leads the audience in applause for the cast, the orchestra, and the conductor - Stanley Tibbets .An axe-wielding maniac stalks the beautiful, scantily-clad women of an upscale sanitarium, all under the watchful eye of the mysterious Dr. Keller .In 1917, during the last months of legal prostitution in Storyville, the red-light district of New Orleans, Louisiana, Hattie is a prostitute working at an elegant brothel run by the elderly, cocaine-sniffing Madame Nell. Hattie has a 12-year-old daughter, Violet, who also lives at the house, and has just given birth to a baby boy. When photographer Ernest J. Bellocq comes by with his camera, Hattie and Violet are the only ones awake. He asks to be allowed to take photographs of the women. Madame Nell only agrees after he offers to pay. Bellocq becomes a fixture in the brothel, taking many photographs of the prostitutes, mostly of Hattie. His activities fascinate Violet, though she believes he is falling in love with her mother, which makes her jealous. Violet is also a restless child, and frustrated by the long, precise process Bellocq must go through to pose and take his pictures. Nell decides that Violet is old enough for her virginity to be auctioned off. After a bidding war between regulars, Violet is bought by an apparently quiet customer, but this first sexual experience is unpleasant. Hattie, meanwhile, aspires to escape prostitution. She marries one of her customers and goes to St. Louis without her daughter, whom her husband believes to be her sister. Hattie promises to return for Violet once she’s settled and broken the news to her new spouse. Violet runs away from the brothel in a fit of temper after being punished for some hijinks, showing up on Bellocq’s doorstep. The two become lovers, although Violet still needs a great deal of attention and is frustrated by Bellocq’s devotion to his work. For his part, the  older man is entranced by Violet’s beauty, youth, and photogenic face. Violet eventually returns to Nell’s after quarreling with Bellocq, but social reform groups are forcing the brothels of Storyville to close. Bellocq arrives to wed Violet, ostensibly to protect her from the larger world. Immediately following the wedding, Hattie and her husband arrive from St. Louis. They claim that Violet’s marriage is illegal without their consent and plan to take her back with them. Violet would like her husband to come with her, but he lets her go, realizing a more conventional life, and schooling, will benefit her more.The film delves into the surreal and demented psyche of a young woman following the murder of her partner Nora. She is incarcerated in a convent prison where her sexual and sadistic desires interrupt her sense of reality.In the previous Antoine Doinel film, Bed and Board, the marriage between Antoine  and Christine  had survived Antoine's infidelity. Love on the Run is set eight years later when Antoine is over thirty. Having an affair with Christine's friend Liliane  and divorced Christine, he gets a job as a proofreader, and falls in love with Sabine, a record seller. He also writes an autobiographical novel. He meets Colette , his teenage love who had appeared in Antoine and Colette, and who is now a lawyer. They impulsively go on a train journey and read Antoine's novel. However, later follows a meeting between Colette and Christine: His romance with Sabine is as complicated and unstable, and it turns out that two of his former flames, Christine and Colette, play a pivotal role in helping him find happiness.In World War II France, Noelle Page , a young and attractive French woman, falls in love with Larry Douglas ([[John Beck , an American pilot of the Royal Canadian Air Force stationed in France. The couple has a torrid love affair that ends abruptly when Larry receives orders to return to the United States. Larry promises Noelle that he will come back for her and marry her. She later finds out that she's pregnant with his child. However, he never comes back and Noelle becomes very bitter. Vowing revenge, Noelle begins using men for their money and power. She becomes a famous European actress and ultimately the mistress of one of the world's wealthiest men, Greek tycoon Constantin Demeris , whom she does not love. In the meantime, Larry is married to Catherine Alexander Douglas , a beautiful and trusting young woman from Chicago. Larry meets her while serving in the Pacific theatre as a United States Army Air Force fighter pilot. He seduces Catherine with some of the same lines he had used with Noelle. After the war, Larry works for various civilian airlines. Noelle hires a detective to keep tabs on him, then sabotages any job Larry is able to find. She then schemes to hire Larry to come to Greece and become a pilot for her private plane. Larry fails to recognize her. Noelle treats him rudely until Larry is not sure how much more he can take. He bursts into Noelle's hotel suite and they rekindle their romance. Larry claims he will keep his long-ago promise and stay with her, leaving Catherine. But when his wife refuses a request for a divorce, Larry and Noelle begin to plan Catherine’s murder. They carry out their plan, but things go wrong. Larry and Noelle ultimately are convicted of murder by a Greek court, which is under the influence of Demeris. They are executed by a firing squad. Catherine has miraculously survived. Suffering from shock, she ends up living in a convent, under the patronage of Constantin Demeris.Fred Amidon is a New York City bank teller whose wife Rachel is divorcing him. Fred already has a new fiancee, bank colleague Pamela Anders, with whom he is about to embark on a vacation. On a picnic in the park, Fred is stung on the chin by a bee. Because it hurts him to shave, Fred lets a full beard grow. He returns to work from vacation and is surprised when his boss orders him to shave. Pamela doesn't care for the beard, either, but Fred is tired of always conforming to everyone else's desires and demands. He refuses and is fired. Colleagues come to Fred's defense. The male ones grow beards in support. Co-workers go on strike and carry picket signs outside the bank, soon joined by hippies and jazz musicians with beards. Fred becomes an overnight media sensation. Rachel likes the new Fred's backbone and fortitude. Pamela does not. She drugs his wine and has her brothers shave him. Fred wakes up with their work half-finished. He flees on foot, wearing half a beard and nothing else but underwear and shoes. Police arrest him and place him in a psychiatric ward. Rachel rescues him, they reconcile and Fred shaves the beard, which he never intended to keep.Five strangers go with a tourist group to view old catacombs. Separated from the main group, they find themselves in a room with the mysterious Crypt Keeper, who details how each of the strangers will die. ...And All Through the House &nbsp;– After Joanne Clayton  kills her husband on Christmas Eve, she prepares to hide his body but hears a radio announcement stating that a homicidal maniac  is on the loose. She sees the killer  outside her house but cannot call the police without exposing her own crimes. Believing the maniac to be Santa, Joanne's daughter unknowingly lets him into the house, and he apparently starts to strangle her to death... Reflection of Death ([[Tales from the Crypt &nbsp;– Carl Maitland  abandons his family to be with Susan Blake . After they drive off together, they are involved in a car accident. He wakes up in the wrecked car and attempts to hitchhike home, but no one will stop for him. Arriving at his house, he sees his wife  with another man. He knocks on the door, but she screams and slams the door. He then goes to see Susan to find out that she is blind from the accident. She says that Carl died two years ago from the crash. Looking in a reflective tabletop he sees he has the face of a corpse. Carl then wakes up and finds out that it was a dream but the moment he does, the crash occurs as it did before. Poetic Justice &nbsp;– Edward Elliott  and his son James  are a snobbish pair who resent their neighbor, retired garbage man Arthur Grimsdyke  who owns a number of animals and entertains children in his house. To get rid of what they see as a blight on the neighborhood, they push Grimsdyke into a frenzy by conducting a smear campaign against him, first resulting in the removal of his beloved dogs , and later exploiting parents' paranoiac fears about child molestation. On Valentine's Day, James sends Grimsdyke a number of poison-pen Valentines, supposedly from the neighbors, driving the old man to suicide. One year later, Grimsdyke comes back from the dead and takes revenge on James: the following morning, Edward finds his son dead with a note that says he was bad and that he had no heart-- the word "heart" represented by James' heart, torn from his body. Wish You Were Here , is a variation on W. W. Jacobs' famed short story "The Monkey's Paw." Ruthless businessman Ralph Jason  is close to financial ruin. His wife Enid  discovers a Chinese figurine that says it will grant three wishes to whoever possesses it; Enid decides to wish for a fortune; surprisingly, it comes true, however, Ralph is killed on the way to his lawyer's office to collect it. The lawyer then advising Enid she will inherit a fortune from her deceased husband's life insurance plan. She uses her second wish to bring him back to the way he was just before the accident but learns that his death was due to a heart attack . As she uses her final wish to bring him back alive and will live forever, she discovers that he was embalmed, she tries to kill him to end his pain but because she wished him to live forever, every bit of him is alive and well, she has now trapped him in eternal pain. Blind Alleys , Major William Rogers , the new director of a home for the blind , makes drastic financial cuts, reducing heat and rationing food for the residents, while he lives in luxury with Shane, his Belgian Malinois. When he ignores complaints and a man dies due to the cold, the blind residents, led by the stone-faced George Carter  exact an equally cruel revenge. After Carter and his group subdue the staff, they lure and trap Major Rogers as well as his dog in two seperate rooms in the basement. The blind men then begin constructing in the basement a maze of narrow corridors, some of them lined with razor blades. They starve the Major's dog, then place the Major in the maze's center, release the dog and turn off the basement lights... After completing the final tale, the Crypt Keeper reveals that he was not warning them of what would happen, but telling them what had happened; they have all died, and it is too late for repentance. Clues to this twist can be spotted throughout the film, including Joan Collins' character wearing the brooch her husband had given her for Christmas just before she killed him. The door to Hell opens, and the visitors all enter. "And now&nbsp;... who is next?" asks the Crypt Keeper, turning to face the camera. "Perhaps you?" (The earlier Amicus anthology [[Torture GardenWhile attending the cremation of his mother's remains, London bank manager Henry Pulling meets aging eccentric Augusta Bertram, a flaming redhead who claims to be his aunt and announces the woman who raised him wasn't his biological mother. She invites him back to her apartment, where her lover, an African fortune teller named Zachary Wordsworth, is waiting for her. Shortly after she receives a package allegedly containing the severed finger of her true love, Ercole Visconti, with a note promising the two will be reunited upon payment of $100,000. Augusta asks Henry to accompany her to Paris and he agrees, unaware she actually is smuggling £50,000 out of England and transporting it to Turkey for a gangster named Crowder in exchange for a £10,000 fee she can put toward the ransom. The two board the Orient Express, where Henry meets Tooley, a young American hippie who takes a liking to him and gets him to smoke "French cigarettes"  with her. When the train reaches Milan, Augusta is greeted by her illegitimate son Gerome, who presents her with a bouquet of flowers and an ear that supposedly belongs to Ercole. When they arrive at the Turkish border, Augusta's plot is uncovered by officials who send her and Henry back to Paris. There Augusta attempts to secure the money she needs from her former lover Achille Dambreuse, but the wealthy Frenchman dies of a heart attack in her hotel suite before she achieves her goal. Efforts to extort $100,000 from Achille's widow in return for their silence about the circumstances of his death fail, and Augusta decides to sell a valuable portrait of herself she claims was painted by Amedeo Modigliani to raise the money. After an argument with Henry, Augusta lets it slip that he is Ercole's "other son". Once the painting is sold, they join Zachary on a fishing boat to North Africa, where they pay the ransom and are reunited with Ercole. He removes his bandages, revealing ear and finger intact, indicating he has been the mastermind of a plot to separate Augusta from her money. Henry, who was suspicious from the start, reveals not only that he has deduced Augusta is his biological mother, but that he exchanged "neatly cut pages of the Barcelona telephone directory" for the money in the package they delivered. He wants to use the cash he kept to purchase the portrait Augusta sold, but she tells him she would prefer to use it to finance further travels. Henry decides the matter should be decided with the toss of a coin and chooses 'Heads'. Wordsworth tosses the coin and the film ends on a freeze frame shot of Augusta, Henry and Wordsworth as they await the fall of the coin.The story follows con man Moze Pray  and young Addie Loggins , an orphan, beginning at Addie's mother's burial. Because Moze once had an affair with her mother , there is speculation that he is Addie's father, which he denies. Moze is reluctantly persuaded to deliver Addie to her aunt's home. With Addie in tow, Moze stops at a local grain mill and convinces the brother of the man who drove his car into a tree, killing Addie's mother, into giving him two hundred dollars for the now-orphaned Addie. Addie overhears this conversation and later demands the money. Because he spent nearly half of the money on car repairs, Moze agrees to travel with Addie until he has raised two hundred dollars to give to her. Addie soon learns how Moze makes his money: he visits recently widowed women, pretending he is a Bible salesman who recently sold an expensive, personalized Bible to the deceased husband. The widows usually overpay him for the books inscribed with their names. Addie joins in the scam, pretending she is his daughter, and exhibits a talent for larceny. As time passes, Moze and Addie become a formidable team and seem to forget about Addie joining her aunt. One night, Moze and Addie stop at a local carnival, where Addie visits a photo booth and has her photograph taken sitting on a crescent moon and Moze becomes enthralled with an "exotic dancer" named Miss Trixie Delight , who is accompanied by her downtrodden, 15-year-old African American maid, Imogene . Although Addie becomes friends with Imogene, she becomes jealous of how Moze begins to focus more and more of his attention on the gold-digging Miss Trixie. When Addie subsequently discovers that Moze has spent all of their money on a new car to impress Miss Trixie, she quickly devises a plan to get rid of her, which includes giving Imogene enough money to get back home to her mother. An elaborate series of maneuvers on Addie's and Imogene's part results in Moze catching Miss Trixie in bed with another man. Devastated, Moze leaves Miss Trixie and Imogene behind. At a hotel, Moze is able to find a bootlegger's store of whiskey, steals some of it, and sells it back to the bootlegger. Unfortunately, the bootlegger's brother is the sheriff, who quickly arrests Moze and Addie. Addie hides their money, steals back the key to their car, and the pair escape, trading their car for a farm truck after Moze beats Leroy  in a 'wrasslin' match. The pair then makes their way across the state line to Missouri, where the Kansas law can't follow them. The sheriff finds them in Missouri, and unable to arrest Moze, he and his cohorts chase, beat and rob him. Humiliated, Moze drops Addie at her aunt's house. Back on the road, Moze stops to let his overheating truck cool down. He discovers the photo of Addie, sitting in a quarter moon, that she left for him on the passenger seat. As he contemplates the photo, he glances into the rear-view mirror and sees a small figure running toward the stopped truck. It is Addie; she has fled her aunt's house and hopes to rejoin Moze. Angry, Moze tells Addie that he does not want her traveling with him anymore. She matter-of-factly reminds him that he still owes her two hundred dollars, and they drive off together.In Visitors from New York, Hannah Warren is a Manhattan workaholic who flies to Los Angeles to retrieve her teenaged daughter Jenny after she leaves home to live with her successful screenwriter father Bill. The bickering divorced couple is forced to decide what living arrangements are best for the girl. In Visitors from London, Diana Barrie is a British actress and a first-time nominee for the Academy Award for Best Actress, an honour that could jumpstart her faltering career, although she knows she doesn't have a chance of winning. She is in deep denial about the true nature of her marriage of convenience to Sidney Cochran, a once-closeted antique dealer who has become increasingly indiscreet about his sexual preference. As she prepares for her moment in the spotlight, her mood fluctuates from hope to panic to despair. In Visitors from Philadelphia, conservative middle-aged businessman Marvin Michaels awakens to discover a prostitute named Bunny - an unexpected gift from his brother Harry - unconscious in his bed. With his wife Millie on her way up to the suite, he must find a way to conceal all traces of his uncharacteristic indiscretion. In Visitors from Chicago, Dr. Chauncey Gump and his wife Lola and Dr. Willis Panama and his wife Bettina are taking a much-needed vacation together. Things begin to unravel quickly when everything seems to go wrong and the two men decide to settle their differences by engaging in a very competitive mixed doubles tennis match.The film tells the story of a young woman, Deborah Dainton , who has a limp as a result of suffering from polio. Her rigid and controlled life is transformed when she meets a handsome stranger called Leigh Hartley  at a party. After developing a friendship, romance soon blossoms and for the very first time in her life Deborah feels happy. This happiness does not last long as she soon discovers Leigh has been lying to her about his life. Leigh and his accomplices are planning to rob the antiques shop where Deborah works. They require her knowledge of the shop in order to pull the robbery off.In the spring of 1968 in California, Sally , a loyal and conservative military wife, is married to Bob Hyde , a Captain in the United States Marine Corps who is sent over to Vietnam. As a dedicated military officer, Bob sees it primarily as an opportunity for progress. At first, Sally dreads being left alone, but after a while she feels liberated. Forced to find housing off the base she moves into a new apartment by the beach and buys a sports car. With nothing else to do, she decides to volunteer at a local veteran's hospital. This, in part, is motivated by her bohemian friend Vi Munson, whose brother Billy has come home after just two weeks in Vietnam with grave emotional problems and now resides in the VA hospital. At the hospital, Sally meets Luke Martin , a former classmate. Like his friend Bill , Luke had gone to Vietnam but came back wounded. He is recuperating at the hospital from the injuries he sustained in the Vietnam War and which left him a paraplegic. Filled with pain, anger, and frustration, Luke is now opposed to the war. Luke at first is a bitter young man, but as he is increasingly thrown into contact with Sally, a relationship starts to develop. Eventually, Luke is released from the hospital, and, newly mobile with his own wheelchair, begins to rebuild his life. His relationship with Sally deepens. She is also transformed by him and her outlook on life starts to change. They have happy times, play at the beach, and the two fall in love. Meanwhile Billy, traumatized by his experiences at war, commits suicide by injecting air into his veins. After Billy’s suicide, Luke has only one obsession: do anything to stop sending young men off to war. Sally and Luke eventually make love, confronting his handicap. It is the first time Sally has had an orgasm. However, she remains loyal to her husband, and both she and Luke know their relationship will have to end when her husband returns home. Bob does return, too soon, having accidentally wounded himself in a leg. He is also suffering from post traumatic stress disorder from what he has seen in combat. Bob then discovers Sally’s affair from Army Intelligence; and both Sally and Luke agree that Sally should try to patch things up with Bob. Bob loses control; menacingly confronting the lovers, but ultimately turns away. The film ends with Bob swimming out into the ocean in utter despair, presumably to kill himself. As Sally enters the supermarket at the end, the two doors close behind her, accidentally forming the symbolic phrase "Lucky Out". She and Luke are now free to pursue their romance.Benji is a lovable stray dog who lives in a small Texas town where he has befriended many local people, each of whom calls him by a different name. He gets plenty of food and attention whenever he visits with one of his acquaintances. He meets another stray dog, a diminutive white female with long fluffy hair, and the two dogs form a bond. Two children whom Benji loves are kidnapped and held for ransom, the dogs try to help, and Benji seeks out friendly people to assist him in freeing the children.When Socorro, New Mexico, housewife Alice Hyatt's uncaring husband Donald is killed in an accident, she decides to have a garage sale, pack what's left of her meager belongings and take her precocious son Tommy to Monterey, California, where she hopes to pursue the singing career she'd abandoned when she married. Their financial situation forces them to take temporary lodgings in Phoenix, Arizona, where she finds work as a lounge singer in a seedy bar. There she meets the considerably younger and seemingly available Ben, who uses his charm to lure her into a sexual relationship that comes to a sudden end when his wife confronts Alice. Ben mercilessly beats his wife for interfering with his extramarital affair. Fearing for their safety, Alice and Tommy quickly leave town. Having spent most of the little money she earned on a new wardrobe, Alice is forced to delay their journey to the West Coast and accept a job as a waitress in Tucson so she can accumulate more cash. At the local diner owned by Mel, she eventually bonds with her fellow servers—independent, no-nonsense, outspoken Flo and quiet, timid, incompetent Vera and meets divorced local rancher David, who soon realizes the way to Alice's heart is through Tommy. Still emotionally wounded from the difficult relationship she had with her uncommunicative husband and the frightening encounter she had with Ben, Alice is hesitant to get involved with another man so quickly. However, she finds David is a good influence on Tommy, who has befriended wisecracking, shoplifting, wine-guzzling Audrey, a slightly older girl forced to fend for herself while her mother makes a living as a prostitute. Alice and David warily fall in love, but their relationship is threatened when Alice objects to his discipline of the perpetually bratty Tommy. The two reconcile, and David offers to sell his ranch and move to Monterey so Alice can try to fulfill her childhood dream of becoming another Alice Faye. But in the end Alice decides to stay in Tucson, coming to the conclusion that she can become a singer anywhere.Helen Connelly is a woman whose nephew Michael died fifteen years earlier. She is separated from her husband, Doremus. She is close to Michael's brother, Craig. When mysterious happenings began taking place and she begins receiving phone calls from the supposedly dead Michael, Helen begins to wonder if Michael is really dead or if she is losing touch with reality.Jeff Gerber  lives in an average suburban neighborhood with his seemingly liberal housewife Althea , who tolerates her husband's character flaws out of love, and two children, Burton  and Janice . Every morning when Jeff wakes up, he spends some time under a tanning machine, bats around a boxing ball, drinks a health drink, and races the bus to work on foot. Jeff presents himself as happy-go-lucky and quite a joker, but others tend to see him as obnoxious and boorish. Althea, who watches the race riots every night on TV with great interest, chastises Jeff for not having sympathy for the problems of black Americans. One morning, Jeff wakes up to find that his pigment has changed. He tries to fall back asleep, thinking that it is a dream, but to no avail. He tries taking a shower to wash the "black" off him, but finds it doesn't work, when Althea walks into the bathroom, and screams. He explains to her that the "Negro in the bathroom" is him. At first, Jeff believes this to be the result of spending too much time under the tanning machine. He spends almost the entire day at home, afraid to go out of the house, only going out once to venture into the "colored part of town" in order to find a pharmacy to buy "the stuff they use in order to make themselves look white." His attempts to change his skin color fail. The next day, he is persuaded to get up and go to work. Things start out well at first, until Jeff is accused of "stealing something" while trying to eat at a restaurant for whites only. The policeman assumes that, since he is a black man, he must have stolen something. During his lunch break, he makes an appointment with his doctor who cannot explain Jeff's "condition" either. After several calls, the doctor suggests that Jeff might be more comfortable with a black doctor. Returning home, he finds Althea afraid to answer the phone. He doesn't understand why until he receives a call from a man telling him to "move out, nigger." At work the next day, a secretary  makes several advances toward him, finding him more attractive as a black man. Jeff's boss suggests that they could drum up extra business with a "Negro" salesman. At home one evening, he finds the people who had made the threatening phone calls, who offer him $50,000 for his home. Jeff manages to raise the price to $100,000. Althea sends the children to a relative and later leaves her husband. Finally accepting the fact that he is black, Jeff quits his regular job, buys an apartment building, and starts his own insurance company. The final scene shows him practicing martial arts with black menial workers, apparently having become one of the militants he used to put down.Sybil is a shy, unassuming substitute grade school teacher. After suffering a small breakdown in front of her students, she is given a neurological examination by Dr. Cornelia Wilbur, a psychologist. Sybil admits to having blackouts and fears they are getting worse. Dr. Wilbur theorizes that the incidents are a kind of hysteria, all related to a deeper problem. She asks Sybil to return at a later date for more counseling. Later that evening, Dr. Wilbur receives a late night call from someone who identifies herself as Vickie and says Sybil is about to jump out a hotel window. Dr. Wilbur rescues Sybil, who denies knowing Vickie. Suddenly Sybil becomes hysterical and begins speaking like a little girl. This little girl introduces herself as Peggy, and Wilbur recognizes that Sybil is a multiple. Vickie introduces herself to Wilbur at the next session. Vickie, who knows everything about the other personalities, tells Wilbur about some of them, including Marcia, who is suicidal and wants to kill Sybil, and Vanessa, who plays the piano although Sybil never learned. Over the weeks, each of the personalities introduce themselves to Wilbur. At the same time, the personality Vanessa falls in love with a charming neighbor named Richard. Wilbur finally explains to Sybil about the other personalities. As proof, Wilbur plays the session's tape to allow Sybil to hear their voices, but when a voice that sounds like Sybil's mother Hattie speaks, Ruthie, an infant personality, emerges. Wilbur is unable to communicate with the pre-verbal child and must wait until Sybil returns. Life becomes more chaotic for Sybil as the other personalities grow stronger. The personalities make Dr. Wilbur a Christmas card, but Sybil made everything purple, a color that frightens Peggy. Dr. Wilbur hypnotizes Vickie and asks about the purple. Vickie relates a memory of a time Sybil's mother locked young Sybil in the wheat bin in the barn. Thinking she was smothering, Sybil used her purple crayon to scratch on the inside of the bin so someone would know she had been there. Vanessa invites Richard and his son Matthew have Christmas dinner, after which Richard spends the night in Sybil's apartment. Sybil has a nightmare and awakens as Marcia, who tries to throw herself off the roof. Richard rescues her and calls Wilbur. Soon afterwards, Richard moves away, crushing both Sybil and Vanessa. Wilbur goes in search of Sybil's father, who mentions that Sybil's mother Hattie was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, but denies that she ever abused Sybil. Wilbur also seeks out Sybil's pediatrician. The doctor gives Wilbur a frightening account of extensive scarring he found while treating Sybil for a bladder problem. Finally, Wilbur visits the old Dorsett house, where she discovers the green kitchen Sybil's selves have described many times. She also finds the purple crayon scratches inside the wheat bin. She takes them back to New York to prove all the memories really happened. Dr. Wilbur drives Sybil back to Willow Corners, which triggers Peggy to spill out the horrific abuse she suffered at her mother's hands. After Peggy exhausts herself, Sybil emerges, remembering everything that Peggy has just said. Finally she is able to express her rage against her mother. Dr. Wilbur hypnotizes Sybil to introduce her to the other personalities. Sybil, who has always been frightened of Peggy, meets her at last and is surprised that she is only a little girl. Sybil embraces a weeping Peggy. A voiceover from Dr. Wilbur explains that after this incident, Sybil recovered her memories and went on to live a full and happy life.Gérard is an engineer who is married to Gabrielle and has a nine-month-old son, for whom he cares deeply. When his wife leaves him for feminist reasons, he is left with custody of their son. To satisfy his romantic longings, Gerard embarks on an affair with Valérie, his son's daycare worker. However, Gabrielle fights for custody of the child, and when Gérard's affair with Valérie threatens his custody chances, Gérard responds by mutilating himself. This film lets down all barriers when it comes to - especially - male nudity. Gerard plays his role masterfully even in the dfficult position of playing several scenes complete nude. He is absolutely uninhibited and acts the pants off everybody else. His slightly ungainly body is offset by his undeniable charm and his attractive face. Unfortunately the end does not work too well as cutting off his penis would be the last thing this character would do. His love of women and sex would preclude it. His character would have gone tooth and nail into fighting to keep his son.Set in the 1930s, a female doctor returns to her birth town in the Blue Ridge Mountains after she had spent a certain period in the big city. She now has the intention of helping the poor residents after she had learned modern medical techniques in the big city. She becomes the rival of the local medicine woman, who is not pleased with her arrival and does not trust the modern science.Oliver Barrett IV is emotionally devastated by the death of his wife Jenny, and, while he tries to lose himself in his work as a lawyer, the long hours don't ease his pain, especially when he finds that his leftist views conflict with those of the senior partners at the firm. Eventually, Oliver's inconsolable grief begins to alienate those around him, until he finds new love with Marcie Bonwit, the wealthy and beautiful heiress to the Bonwit Teller fortune. Despite his affection for her, Oliver finds it difficult to leave the memory of Jenny behind, which causes major problems in their relationship.A beautiful but disturbed young woman lives alone at a beach cottage, reliving her past, a tissue of delusions and lies. Lou Andreas Sand  is a former fashion model whose life has gone into a downward spiral including drug use and a nervous breakdown. She tells an acquaintance, Aaron Reinhardt , her story for a film he is planning on her, but the details do not ring true. Lou evidently had a lover who abused her and a penchant for sex with strange men. Along the way, she became engaged to marry Mark , an ad executive, but apparently jilted him on the day of their wedding, leading to her descent into drugs and an attempted suicide.The film opens with a mysterious person chasing a student, Martha Sayers . The same day, the police and her sister Elizabeth  find her hanged in her room. The police rule her death as an unmotivated suicide, but Elizabeth refuses to believe this and investigates further. She decides to visit the exclusive academy that Martha attended, The Salem Academy for Women, despite warnings from Martha's roommate, Lucy Dembrow . Under the assumed name of Elizabeth Morgan, she enrolls at the college, where she is welcomed by her classmates Roberta Lockhart , Debbie Jones  and Jody Keller . Elizabeth notes several strange occurrences, but postpones further investigation. Debbie has an outburst in class. The feared headmistress, Mrs. Jessica Williams , is worried about the influence of "the new girl". When Lucy commits suicide, Elizabeth resumes her investigation. She becomes intrigued with a painting of Martha in a dungeon-like room. Debbie, who painted it, is terrified of the painting and claims she invented the background, but Elizabeth finds an identical setting in a cellar on campus. When she is accosted by a man with a sharp weapon, Elizabeth flees. The next night, Elizabeth returns to the cellar with Roberta, who is now suspicious as well. They locate a hidden room in which they find the dead body of Debbie, who earlier that evening had tried to leave the campus. Elizabeth suspects that Professor Delacroix  is responsible, considering his odd and mildly sadistic behavior. Elizabeth bursts into his office, finding him in a deranged state with a gun in his hand. He fears something supernatural is stalking him, and he jumps through the window. After running for some time, he ends up mired in a swamp, where he is beaten with sticks by several students including Jody. Meanwhile, the otherwise popular Dr. Joseph Clampett  reveals to Williams that he is responsible for all the murders. He orders the headmistress to evacuate the school. Elizabeth and Roberta are unaware of the evacuation. They discover the body of Delacroix, who has been brutally murdered. Elizabeth and Roberta turn to Williams for help, but she has gone insane. When they are unsuccessful in calling the police, Elizabeth and Roberta go to the cellar to find a gun. Instead they find Clampett leading a satanic cult. His followers  believe that he is Satan incarnate, and Roberta reveals herself as his loyal servant. Elizabeth is able to escape when Clampett sets the school on fire, and she takes Williams with her. The other girls, however, stay behind to sacrifice themselves to their leader. Clampett, who is actually supernatural, survives the fire and is seen outdoors, where he mysteriously vanishes.A young couple engage in a rampage of murder, rape and mayhem in order to stimulate their sexual appetites.Elgin  is a college student who concentrates on his phyiscal fitness playing solitary soccer and studying literature. He hears his friend David  making love next door. Then he hears David's girlfriend pounding on the door demanding to know who's in his room with him. Shelly  comes into Elgin's room wearing only a towel implying she was the woman with David just a moment ago. Shelly says she will only be there a short time until David starts making love with his girlfriend. Then she says it will be a lot longer. David thanks Elgin by setting him up with Shelly. After a meal where Elgin first sees Caroline , the two couples separate and Elgin and Shelly end up in his room. Shelly declares she likes Elgin, and offers to make love to him. He's shocked, but spurns her when she disrobes. Working as the busboy at the school's cafeteria, Elgin has his first conversation with Caroline, but ends up spilling tea on her and her book. She still leaves her dormitory name on a sheet of paper and he goes to see her with a new copy of the book. After a rough start, she agrees to go have coffee with him. She alludes to having another boyfriend, but he is smitten and decides to join a class she is in three weeks after it started. He learns her father died a long time ago. They go on their first real date to the symphony, and there is clear chemistry between them. They meet the other man John , who is already married. She is visibly shaken by this and asks to spend a night with Elgin because she doesn't want to be alone. Their love making is interrupted by David, who says Elgin is late for work. Elgin runs to work and David convinces Caroline to take a ride back to her dorm on his motorcycle. Elgin spots them together and he fights David in a jealous rage, but feels better when Caroline tells him she's not interestd in David. After Elgin gets fired for being late to work, David and Caroline watch Elgin play a successful game of soccer. Elgin and Caroline are making love again when he asks about John, who worked with her father as a lawyer and she has known John all her life. He gets jealous when he learns she slept with him and she gets mad about the conversation. Elgin gets nervous when he can't get a hold of her, but finds a note to join her alone at her family's estate. They continue making love, but she resists him while they are in her childhood playhouse. She tells him this is where her father committed suicide. The phone rings before they drive together back to school. During the drive, Caroline tells him that was John on the phone, he wants her back, and they can't see each other any more. Elgin pulls his motorcycle out of the back of the car and leaves her on the side of the road alone in the car. Elgin returns to his dorm to find Shelly sitting by his door. Shelly declares her love for David, but thinks he doesn't feel the same. Elgin turns Shelly down for sex a second time. Elgin runs into Caroline saying goodbye to John. She tells Elgin she's with John and it's over between them. Elgin gets drunk and again finds Shelly at his door. Elgin accepts Shelly's third proposition, but she leaves in the middle when he calls her Caroline. Elgin goes to Caroline's shared class, but leaves in the middle of the lecture when she doesn't show up. Elgin then goes to see John at his office. He professes his love to Caroline and asks John if his intentions are honorable. John says he has a shaky marriage, but his kids are important and doesn't know if he could divorce his wife. Caroline shows up in Elgin's room in the middle of the night, makes love to him, and then brings him breakfast in the morning. John decided he won't get the divorce. John tells Elgin he's engaged to Shelly. Elgin is mad that's he's second best, but takes Caroline back. This fact eventually tears him up inside and he tells Caroline his love for her is gone and their relationship is over. He says goodbye to her as she leaves alone on a train. He is shown back playing solitary soccer as the credits roll.SoundtrackPete Best's helpEuropean version A European version exists, and is a different cut from the American version. The following changes were made to the European version: #Some of the dialogue and text in this version is different. #The opening narration is now done by a British narrator, with the opening text superimposed on a black screen as opposed to a blue screen. #The prologue, which includes John saying that he wants to see Mickey Mouse is omitted. #The opening theme song is "My Bonnie" instead of "She Loves You". #A scene in an art school with a naked woman is included. #The scenes where The Beatles perform at Der Kaiserkeller are longer. They also include two additional song scenes: "Kansas City" and "Shake, Rattle and Roll" . #The scene where they find Stuart badly beaten has extra dialogue. It also fleshes out Stuart's refusal to see a doctor even more, unlike the regular versions where it abruptly cuts right after John says "Let's get him to a hospital", making the viewer think that Stuart went to a hospital after he got badly beaten, when it is clear that he did not. #The scene where Stuart and Astrid have their moment in bed together is different. The other version has him showing her her new necklace, while this version, has the two of them making love to each other. #John's bedroom scene with Stuart has extra shots of the others in bed. #The scene where they first talk to Brian Epstein is a little bit longer. #The scene where Brian goes to find The Beatles performing "Love me Do" at a venue is longer. #The scene where Brian goes to tell the Beatles about George Martin and EMI, has him getting out of a taxi. #In the scene where Cynthia tell John about expecting a baby, John asks her "What are we gonna call him?" #The scene where the Beatles arrive at New York City is longer. #The end credits feature "She Loves You", instead of "My Bonnie".Set in a working class community, it tells the story of the De Coco family, a family of construction workers. Louis is the head of the family with three sons, but one, Stoney  wants to be a teacher, not a hardhat. Then he accepts a job as a recreational assistant at a children's ward. Immediately, bitter divisions begin to surface.Following the death of his wife, a father of three sons  hires an attractive young housekeeper named Angela , and soon becomes engaged to her.{{cite web}} However, the one most obsessed with her is the middle son, the teenager Nino. He blackmails her into eventually tolerating his increasingly aggressive physical sexual harassments. It all culminates one night before she marries his father. During the night the electricity goes off. As his father and older brother are away, and with his younger brother asleep, Nino approaches his housekeeper with a flashlight and orders her to undress. She gives in after an initial physical protest, but runs away after finishing undressing. Nino chases her with the flashlight until he accidentally drops it. With the flashlight in her own hands, Angela decides it is time to turn the tables. She blinds Nino with the flashlight and when he tries to reach for it, she pins him to a nearby bed and has sex with him while rushing him to "Fotti! Fotti!" . With Nino finally losing control over her, she marries his father the following day and his father instructs Nino to refer to her as "Mamma" from then on.{{cite web}}Two young lovers, Sam Freeman  and Paula Powers , want to get married in Las Vegas. When Paula introduces Sam to her parents they dispute their daughter's decision: they see Collins Hedgeworth , the son of a wealthy family in the area, as her fiancée. Paula's parents are rich as well and her father, Bigby Powers , is planning to run for governor. They think Sam is marrying Paula for the money and call him a fortune hunter, which Paula fiercely disputes. Sam is thrown off the premises and Paula is sent to her room. She escapes through the window, steals her parents' Rolls-Royce, picks up Sam and hits the road: this is the beginning of two runaway lovers in a wild explosive car chase and race towards Las Vegas. As news of their elopement spreads, several people start off after them to try to stop the fleeing couple. Paula's father, Bigby Powers starts the chase by arranging his helicopter. Collins Hedgeworth leaves his stable and starts chasing his love interest like mad. When he calls to the TenQ radio station – to DJ Curly Q. Brown  – he offers a USD$25,000 reward for the ones who can catch Paula and Sam. As a result the chase becomes more and more chaotic as many people along and on the road try to stop the couple in order to claim the reward. A number of cars are wrecked and stolen, and a subsequent reward of $25,000 is offered for Collins Hedgeworth, who is wanted by the police for grand theft auto, after he stole a car. With so many cars following them, Paula and Sam turn onto small, country roads to try to lose their pursuers. He wants to head somewhere else to get married, but she is set on a Vegas wedding. Paula's father makes an emotional appeal to her via telephone, but she refuses to listen to him. As they approach Las Vegas, Sam begins to have doubts about Paula's reasons for elopment, and questions whether she is genuinely motivated by affection for him or a desire to spite her father. She persuades him that she does want to marry him. The chase is gaining increasing coverage in the news media, with live cameras following the chase. The pursuing cars become involved in a demolition derby, leading to a massive pile-up. The priceless Rolls Royce is totally destroyed, but Paula and Sam manage to escape. They eventually get married.In 1951, Sonny Crawford  and Duane Jackson  are small-town Texas high-school seniors. They are friends and co-captains of Anarene High School's football team and share a rooming house home and a battered old pickup truck. Duane is good-looking, amusing and popular, and dates Jacy Farrow , the prettiest  girl in town. Sonny is sensitive and caring, with a dumpy, unpleasant girlfriend, Charlene Duggs , whom he does not love; she shares his indifference, and they decide to call it quits. At Christmastime, Sonny stumbles into an affair with Ruth Popper , the depressed, middle-aged wife of his high-school coach, Coach Popper . At the sad little town Christmas dance, Jacy is invited by unsavory Lester Marlow  to a naked indoor pool party at the home of Bobby Sheen , a wealthy boy who seems to offer better prospects than Duane. Since Bobby is not interested in her as long as she is a virgin, she must get someone to have sex with her first. Duane and Sonny go on a road trip to Mexico — which happens entirely off-screen — and return to discover that Sam the Lion , their mentor and father-figure in town, has died of a stroke, leaving a will that bequeaths the town's movie theater to the woman who ran the concession stand, the café to its waitress, Genevieve , and the pool hall to Sonny. Jacy invites Duane to a motel for sex, but he is unable to perform; it takes a second attempt to alter her virginity status. Having got what she wants from Duane, she breaks up with him by phone, and he eventually joins the Army. When Bobby elopes with another girl, Jacy is alone again, and out of boredom has sex with Abilene , her mother's lover. When Jacy hears of Sonny's affair with Ruth, she sets her sights on him and Ruth gets nudged out very quickly. Sonny gets injured with a broken bottle in a fight with Duane, who still considers Jacy "his" girl. Jacy pretends to be impressed that Sonny would fight over her and suggests they elope. On their way to their honeymoon, they are stopped by an Oklahoma state trooper — apparently Jacy left a note telling her parents all about their plan. The couple is fetched back to Anarene by her father and mother in separate automobiles. On the trip back, Jacy's mother Lois  admits to Sonny she was Sam the Lion's erstwhile paramour and tells him he was much better off with Ruth Popper than with Jacy. Duane returns to town for a visit before shipping out for Korea. He and Sonny are among the meager group attending the final screening at Sam's old movie house, which is no longer a viable business. The next morning, after Sonny sees Duane off on the Trailways bus, young Billy , another of the town's innocents protected over the years by Sam the Lion, is run over and killed as he sweeps the street. Sonny flees back to Ruth, whom he has been ignoring since Jacy stole him away months earlier. Her first reaction is to show her hurt and anger, then the two slip into a haunting, beatific calm in her familiar kitchen.The marriage of Les and Katie Bingham is in big trouble. They've already split up once, and now they're giving it one more try, but the bedroom of their New York apartment is not a happy place. Les finds her too cold. Katie finds him too fast. The Binghams weigh the opinions of lawyer Lou, who also has a romantic interest in Katie. There's also temptation for Les in the form of sexy neighbor Jackie, who gives him a copy of "The Joy of Sex" as a gift. But as soon as he tries out one of the positions in it, Les throws out his back. The couple takes one last desperate try to revive their passion and save their relationship. They travel to California to join a sex-therapy group, where much goes wrong, but all ends well.The Clock Family are "borrowers," tiny people who live in the houses of regular sized "human beans ". They survive by borrowing all they need from big people and try to keep their existence secret. The main characters are a teenage borrower girl named Arriety Clock and her parents, Pod and Homily. During a borrowing expedition with her father and contrary to borrower nature, Arriety befriends a human boy who lives in the home and develops a friendship with him. The tiny family, who live under the kitchen floorboards of an old manor, are eventually discovered by the other humans who occupy the home and are forced to flee into the English countryside.Althea is the mother of teenager Jennifer. Althea's husband leaves her; this has a horrible influence on her relationship with her daughter. When Althea starts to date other men, Jennifer can't accept this. Meanwhile, Althea is irritated by Jennifer taking over her own habits.This film depicts the restrictive social conventions regarding intercaste marriage and unwed motherhood in India. Julie ([[Laxmi  is a Christian Anglo-Indian girl with a loving, but alcoholic father  and a domineering mother ([[Nadira , a younger brother and sister . She falls in love with her best friend's  brother Shashi Bhattacharya ([[Vikram , a Hindu boy, and she has a passionate encounter with him, which leaves her pregnant. He goes away to college, not knowing about her condition. Her mother is distraught when Julie tells her about the pregnancy. They don't tell the rest of the family. Her mother thinks about getting Julie an abortion, but a devout Christian  talks her out of it. Julie is sent away to have her baby in secret. The rest of the family is told that Julie got a job. After the baby's birth, Julie's mother arranges for the child to be left in an orphanage, and demands that Julie return home and forget about the baby. When she comes back home, her father has died. She is now the primary earner in the family. Later, she runs into her Hindu boyfriend and tells him everything. He asks to marry her, but his mother objects to the mixed marriage. She blames Julie for seducing her son and having the baby. Julie's mother doesn't want the marriage either, as it will represent a mixed-caste marriage, and she wants to return to England. However, the wisdom of the boyfriend's father  prevails as he confronts the mothers' prejudices regarding caste and religion, and urges both to accept the baby boy. The film ends with the mothers offering their full blessings to the young couple, and Julie's mother promising her grandson she will "never leave him."The film opens at the fictional Miskatonic University in Arkham, Massachusetts, where Dr. Henry Armitage  has just finished a lecture on the local history and the very rare and priceless Necronomicon. He gives the book to his student Nancy Wagner  to return to the library. She is followed by a stranger, who later introduces himself as Wilbur Whateley . Whateley asks to see the book, and though it is closing time and the book is reputedly the only copy in existence, Nancy allows it under the influence of Whateley's hypnotic gaze. Whateley's perusal of the book is cut short by Armitage, who has researched Wilbur's family's sordid past. His warnings about the Whateleys go unheeded by Nancy, who decides to give Wilbur a ride back to Dunwich after he misses his bus, perhaps purposely. At a gas station on the outskirts of town, Nancy first encounters the ill-esteem in which the locals hold Wilbur. Once back at the Whateley house, she meets Old Whateley , Wilbur's grandfather. Her car is then disabled and she is drugged by the younger Whateley. She decides under the influence of hypnosis and drugs to spend the weekend, and does not change her mind when Armitage and her classmate arrive from Arkham the next morning. The duo does not abandon Nancy, however. They investigate further and discover that Wilbur's mother, Lavinia  is still alive and in an asylum. The town doctor, Cory  informs Armitage that Lavinia delivered twins when Wilbur was born, but one was stillborn, though he was not there for the delivery and never saw the body. The childbirth was very traumatic and Lavina "lost her mind" during it, and nearly died. In the meantime, on the advice of the locals, Nancy's classmate enters the Whateley house looking for Nancy. She opens a locked door, and releases a creature  that kills her and escapes. Upon Wilbur and Nancy's return, Old Whateley confronts them about the presence of the missing girl's car, and in the ensuing argument, falls down the stairs and dies. Wilbur takes him to the local cemetery for a decidedly non-Christian burial, but the local townsfolk vociferously stop him. As the story draws to a close, a rapid unfolding of events occurs. Wilbur's twin runs amok in Dunwich, killing several people. Lavinia dies in the asylum, looking much older than her 45 years. The Whateley estate burns down in a conflagration that may have to do with a pagan ritual. At the top of a coastal cliff, Wilbur prepares Nancy for sacrifice to bring back what he calls "The Old Ones." He is struck by lightning in the ritual and falls in a ball of fire into the sea. In the closing scene, the physically unharmed Nancy is escorted off the sacrificial altar by Armitage and Cory, who calm her by stating that the Whateley line has ended. Just before the credits, it is revealed that Nancy is pregnant, presumably with Wilbur's ill-conceived child.In 1970, political journalist Richard lives with Penny but is having an affair with actress Dee. The two woman meet and become friends.The Loneliest Runner follows the story of Michael Landon's alter-ego, 13 year-old John Curtis , who still wets his bed although already into his teens. The problem is publicized, by his mother, Alice Curtis , not only at home but also in public. She even goes so far as to hang her son’s stained bed sheets up in the window for all to see. For fear of having his friends see the yellow sheets, the embarrassed John runs home from school every day and takes them down to avoid further humiliation. Soon, however, the running becomes more than a race home but an ambition. Partly because he loves it, and also to help him forget his shame and hurt of his unhappy home life, John starts running with the Junior track team in order to channel his anger. The show continues on ten years later when the now adult John Curtis  is an Olympic marathon runner and a gold-medal-winner. During a post-race interview, the adult Curtis gives credit to his mother for his success as a runner.Jonathan Harker  is an estate agent in Wismar, Germany. His boss, Renfield , informs him that a nobleman named Count Dracula wishes to buy a property in Wismar, and assigns Harker to visit the count and complete the lucrative deal. Leaving his young wife Lucy  behind in Wismar, Harker travels for four weeks to Transylvania, to the castle of Count Dracula. He carries with him the deeds and documents needed to sell the house to the Count. On his journey, Jonathan stops at a village, where locals plead for him to stay clear of the accursed castle, providing him with details of Dracula's vampirism. Harker ignores the villagers' pleas as superstition, and continues his journey unassisted. Harker arrives at Dracula's castle, where he meets the Count , a strange, ancient, almost rodent-like man, with large ears, pale skin, sharp teeth, and long fingernails. The lonely Count is enchanted by a small portrait of Lucy and immediately agrees to purchase the Wismar property, especially with the knowledge that he and Lucy would become neighbors. As Jonathan's visit progresses, he is haunted at night by a number of dream-like encounters with the vampiric Count. Simultaneously, in Wismar, Lucy is tormented by night terrors, plagued by images of impending doom. Additionally, Renfield is committed to an asylum after biting a cow, apparently having gone completely insane. To Harker's horror, he finds the Count asleep in a coffin, confirming for him that Dracula is indeed a vampire. At night, Dracula leaves for Wismar, taking with him a number of coffins, filled with the cursed earth that he needs for his vampiric rest. Harker finds that he is locked in the castle, and attempts to escape through a window with a makeshift rope. The rope, fashioned from bedsheets, is not long enough, and Jonathan falls, severely injuring himself. He awakes on the ground the next morning, stirred by the sound of a young gypsy boy playing a violin. He is eventually sent to a hospital and raves about "black coffins" to doctors, who then assume that the sickness is affecting his mind. Meanwhile, Dracula and his coffins travel to Wismar by boat. He systematically kills the entire crew, making it appear as if they were afflicted with plague. The ghost ship arrives, with its cargo, at Wismar, where doctors - including Abraham Van Helsing  - investigate the strange fate of the ship. They discover a log that mentions their perceived affliction with plague. In turn, Wismar is flooded with rats from the ship. Dracula arrives in Wismar with his coffins, and death spreads rapidly throughout the town. When Jonathan is finally transported home, he is desperately ill, and does not appear to recognize his wife. Lucy later has an encounter with Count Dracula; weary and unable to die, he demands some of the love that she gave so freely to Jonathan, but she refuses, much to Dracula's dismay. Now aware that something other than plague is responsible for the death that has beset her once-peaceful town, Lucy desperately tries to convince the townspeople, but they are skeptical and uninterested. She finds that she can vanquish Dracula's evil by distracting him at dawn, but at the expense of her own life. She lures the Count to her bedroom, where he proceeds to drink her blood. ‎ Lucy's beauty and purity distract Dracula from the call of the rooster, and at the first light of day, he collapses to the floor. Van Helsing arrives to discover Lucy, dead but victorious. He then drives a stake through the heart of the Count to make sure Lucy's sacrifice was not in vain. In a final, chilling twist, Jonathan Harker awakes from his sickness, now a vampire, and arranges for Van Helsing's arrest. He is last seen traveling away on horseback, stating enigmatically that he has much to do.After the death of his parents and brother, 24-year-old musician Jody Pearson is raising his 13-year-old brother Mike in a small town disturbed by the mysterious deaths of its citizens. Reggie, a family man and ice cream vendor, joins the brothers in their suspicions that the local mortician, dubbed the Tall Man, is responsible for the deaths. Mike relays his fears to a fortuneteller and her granddaughter about the possibility of Jody departing and leaving him in the care of his aunt, along with his suspicions about the Tall Man. Mike is shown a small black box and told to put his hand into it. After the box grips his hand, Mike is told not to be afraid and as the panic subsides, the box relaxes its grip. The notion of fear itself as the killer is established and is what propels Mike toward his final confrontation in the film with the Tall Man. Mike is pursued by minions of the Tall Man, alien dwarves , who are made from the bodies of the recently deceased, and tries to convince his brother of what is happening. After convincing his brother and Reggie, they find a strange white room with containers in the mausoleum. There is also a gateway to another planet that Mike enters briefly where he sees the alien dwarves that have hunted him through the movie being used as slaves. While trying to escape the Tall Man, Reggie is stabbed and appears to die while Mike and Jody barely escape. They devise a plan to lure the Tall Man into a local deserted mine shaft and trap him inside. After doing so successfully, Mike wakes with a start in his house, lying by the fireplace with Reggie sitting next to him. Reggie tells Mike he was simply having a bad dream, something that has been a common occurrence since Jody died in a car crash. Mike goes into his room where the Tall Man is waiting and an alien dwarf pulls Mike through his bedroom mirror.Newly released from a mental hospital, Jessica , accompanied by her husband  and a friend , retreats to a Victorian farmhouse in an isolated part of rural Connecticut. The trio finds Emily , an enigmatic hippie, living in the house. Almost immediately, Jessica feels a resurgence of her madness. Increasing evidence suggests that Emily and all the other inhabitants of the island are ghosts and/or vampires pursuing Jessica and her companions. However, viewers are never sure whether the bizarre occurrences are real or only in Jessica's mind.Sandro, a detective, finds his wife strangled. His girlfriend Tiffany , who works as a photographer, makes a "Blow up" from a photo, what Sandro finds beside the victim. Sandro and Tiffany are looking for the woman on the photo, Laura . They found her in a night club in Rome.American Dr. Ben Land travels to Amsterdam to find with Dr. Linden, an expert on aging who is supposedly close to a breakthrough. Unfortunately, Dr. Linden is discovered hanged and Ben is left with only baffling clues. He becomes intimate with Anna, who worked as a bondage model for the doctor. In an extended and controversial scene, the two engage in light shibari bondage of Anna, the first such instance of bondage in mainstream media. Later, Ben discovers that Anna knows more than she should about the mysterious 'Swiss man', Nicholas Ulrich.A man arrives in a Swedish small town to work as a waiter at the run-down Hotel Busarewski . He is installed in a small room, and soon begins to serve customers under the supervision of a strict, wheelchair-using manager suffering from an exaggerated self image. The man befriends two co-workers: the talkative Gustav "The Count" Svensson and the beautiful waitress Anna. Anna says that she is only there working temporarily, just like the man himself, and that she will soon move on to work at a seaside hotel. After work one day Anna takes the man to her borrowed apartment and tries to persuade him to go away with her somewhere. She tries to hug him but he is reluctant and returns to his room. There The Count visits him and reveals a plan he has that would bring them both lots of money. But in order to realize it they will first have to free a friend of The Count who happens to be in jail. The Count gives the man the code name "Giliap" to use during the operation. Later Anna tries to have a talk with Giliap about feelings. She thinks he is mysterious, but Giliap claims that his secret is that he doesn't have any secrets. Anna says that she fears that he is going to take all her feelings and then just disappear. The rescue operation for The Count's friend fails because of poor preparation and ends in confusion. After fleeing, The Count becomes seriously ill, and lying in his bed surrounded by colleagues he asks for Anna - who is at first reluctant but eventually appears, to The Count's satisfaction. Later Giliap has bought a flower bouquet for Anna, but arriving at her apartment he is greeted by The Count who tells him she has left for that seaside hotel. Giliap goes there, finds her and embraces her. She starts to cry and they share dinner in a room she is sharing with another girl working at the same hotel. The Count arrives at the seaside hotel and asks for whiskey. In the morning Anna once again tries to persuade Giliap to go away with her, before leaving for work. Outside she runs into The Count, who shows her lots of money, but she dismisses him. He then brings out a gun and shoots her. Giliap and Anna's roommate walk out and find the money shattered all over the beach and start to collect it, before discovering Anna's body in the sand. Afterwards Anna's friends leaves on a train, leaving Giliap alone.In Montauban in 1944, during the German retreat from France, Julien Dandieu is an ageing, embittered surgeon in the local hospital. Frightened by the German army entering Montauban, Dandieu asks his friend Francois to drive his wife and his daughter to the remote village where he owns a chateau. One week later, Dandieu sets off to meet them for the weekend, but the Germans have now occupied the village. His daughter and wife, who was raped, were both killed by the cruel Germans soldiers who shot his young daughter and immolated his wife with a flame-thrower. Dandieu decides to kill as many Germans as possible to avenge his family. He takes an old gun he used as a child while hunting with his father and starts to kill them one by one. They begin to think they are surrounded by many partisans and don't realise that he is, in fact, the only one, taking advantage of his knowledge of the secret passages within the chateau. He beats one of the SS men to death, shoots some of them and lets two of them drown in the well, where he closes the grid, preventing them from escaping. With no more cartridges for the shotgun, he finds the flame-thrower which killed his beloved wife and uses it to kill the SS officer as he is about to commit suicide standing in front of the 2-way mirror. The film ends with the liberation of the place by the French Resistance.Underground actress Divine lives under the pseudonym "Babs Johnson" with her mentally ill, egg-loving mother Edie, delinquent son Crackers, and traveling companion Cotton. They all live together in a pink trailer on the outskirts of Phoenix, Maryland, in front of which can be found a pair of eponymous plastic pink flamingos. After learning that Divine has been named "the filthiest person alive" by a tabloid paper, jealous rivals Connie and Raymond Marble set out to destroy her career but come undone in the process. The Marbles run an "adoption clinic", which is actually a black market baby ring. They kidnap young women, have them impregnated by their homosexual manservant, Channing, and sell their babies to lesbian couples. The proceeds are used to finance a network of dealers selling heroin in inner-city elementary schools. Raymond also gets money by exposing himself  to unsuspecting women in a park and stealing their purses when they flee. The Marbles send a spy named Cookie in the guise of what Crackers thinks is a date. In one of the film's most infamous scenes, the two of them have sex while crushing a live chicken between them as Cotton looks on voyeuristically. Cookie then informs the Marbles about Babs's real identity, her whereabouts, and her family, as well as information about her upcoming birthday party. The Marbles send a box of human faeces to Divine as a birthday present with a card addressing her as "Fatso" and proclaiming themselves "The Filthiest People Alive". Worried her title has been seized, Divine proclaims whoever sent the package must die and her two associates agree. Meanwhile, at the Marbles, Channing dresses up as Connie and Raymond, wearing Connie's clothes and imitating their earlier overheard conversations. When the Marbles return home, they catch Channing imitating them and react with outrage, firing him and locking him in a closet until they can return from their chores and kick him out for good. The birthday party begins as the Marbles arrive to spy on it. Divine receives an assortment of gifts, including lice shampoo, a pig's head and an axe. Later on, they all witness a topless dancing woman with a snake and a contortionist who flexes his anal sphincter in rhythm to the song "Surfin' Bird." One of the guests, the Egg Man, who delivers eggs to Edie daily, confesses his love for her and proposes marriage. She accepts his proposal and he carries Edie off in a wheelbarrow for a honeymoon around the egg industry. The Marbles, disgusted by the reveling, call the police, but this proves unsuccessful as Divine and the other party-goers kill the cops. Divine hacks up their bodies with the axe and the party goers eat them. After the party ends, Divine and Crackers head to the Marbles' house  where they lick and rub everything in their house to spread their "filthiness", which excites them to the point of engaging in oral sex. Licking the furniture later causes it to "reject" the less filthy Marbles when they return home: when they try to sit down, the cushions fly up, throwing them to the floor. Divine and Crackers find Channing locked away, but they have no sympathy for him. Once they're in the dungeon, Divine and Crackers use a large knife to cut the bonds and free the two captive women, then hand over the knife. The women emasculate him offscreen. Meanwhile, Connie and Raymond burn Divine's beloved trailer to the ground. Afterwards, Crackers, Cotton, and Divine find the trailer reduced to flame and ash. This is the last straw for Divine, and soon after Connie and Raymond find that Channing has bled to death from his penis and the two girls are gone, Divine takes them hostage at gunpoint. She then calls the local tabloid media to witness the Marbles' trial and execution, as she proclaims her belief in "filth politics": {{cquote}} Divine holds a "kangaroo court", asks Cotton and Crackers for their biased testimony, and sentences the bound and gagged Marbles to death for "first-degree stupidity" and "assholism". Divine sarcastically offers them the opportunity to speak on their own behalf, but they're of course gagged and they move straight to the execution. They tie the Marbles to a tree, coating them in tar and feathers. Divine then shoots them in the head and the media leave shortly afterward, satisfied with their scoop of a "live homicide". Divine, Crackers, and Cotton talk about where to base their seat of operations next and they enthusiastically decide to relocate to Boise, Idaho. The legendary ending opens as Crackers, Cotton, and Divine walk down the street, where they spot a dog and its owner. They look at the dog excitedly and hungrily for some reason. Then we see the dog defecates on the sidewalk, and Divine sits down next to it. She takes the faeces in her hand and puts it in her mouth, proving as the narrator states, she is "not only the filthiest person in the world, but is also the world's filthiest actress". She spits some of the faeces back off and grins.The film tells of Oliver Barrett IV, who comes from a family of wealthy and well-respected Harvard University graduates. At Radcliffe library, the Harvard student meets and falls in love with Jennifer Cavalleri, a working-class, quick-witted Radcliffe College student. Upon graduation from college, the two decide to marry against the wishes of Oliver's father, who thereupon severs ties with his son. Without his father's financial support, the couple struggles to pay Oliver's way through Harvard Law School with Jenny working as a private school teacher. They rent the top floor of a house near the Law School at 119 Oxford Street, in the Agassiz neighborhood of Cambridge adjacent to a local laundromat. Graduating third in his class at Harvard Law, Oliver takes a position at a respectable New York law firm. With Oliver's new income, the pair of 24-year-olds decide to have a child. After failing, they consult a medical specialist, who after repeated tests, informs Oliver that Jenny is ill and will soon die. While this is not stated explicitly, she appears to have leukemia. As instructed by his doctor, Oliver attempts to live a "normal life" without telling Jenny of her condition. Jenny nevertheless discovers her ailment after confronting her doctor about her recent illness. With their days together numbered, Jenny begins costly cancer therapy, and Oliver soon becomes unable to afford the multiplying hospital expenses. Desperate, he seeks financial relief from his father. When the senior Barrett asks if he needs the money because he got some girl "in trouble," Oliver says yes instead of telling his father the truth about Jenny's condition. From her hospital bed, Jenny speaks with her father about funeral arrangements, then asks for Oliver. She tells him to avoid blaming himself, and asks him to embrace her tightly before she dies. They lie together on the hospital bed. As a grief-stricken Oliver leaves the hospital, he is met by his father who now wants to apologize for the way he treated his son. Oliver replies that "Love means never having to say you're sorry" and cries.The film begins with a newsreel sequence showing the chaos around the death of 31-year-old film star Rudolph Valentino . Thousands of fans mob the funeral home until order is restored, at which point the important women in Valentino's life come to mourn. Each remembers him via flashbacks. The first of these women is a young movie executive and screenwriter named June Mathis , who appears to have had an unrequited love for Valentino. She remembers him before he was famous, when he lived in New York City and worked as a dishwasher, taxi dancer, and gigolo. He shares with her his dream of owning an orange grove in California. After mobsters rob him, he decides he must make the move west. Once in California, he upsets Fatty Arbuckle  by grabbing the starlet next to Arbuckle and romancing her into becoming his first wife, Jean Acker . Acker's glamorous and luxurious life, made possible by acting in movies, motivates Valentino to try acting himself. Mathis recalls seeing him in a bit part in a movie and, based on that alone, recommending him for a larger role in her next project, The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. The hugely successful 1921 film launches Valentino to superstardom, and she is proud to have discovered him. Back at the funeral, Alla Nazimova  makes a flamboyant entrance. She proceeds to make a scene and, when the photographers ask her to repeat it for the cameras, she obliges. Nazimova claims a relationship with Valentino and recalls working on Camille with him. Next Natacha Rambova  enters and tells reporters that, even though she and Valentino are physically separated, they are still close via the spirit world. Her flashback shows that she was at first Nazimova's lover, but that, realizing Valentino's star would far outweigh Nazimova's, she decided to take advantage of Valentino's infatuation with her to do some social climbing. During the filming of The Sheik, she seduces Valentino with a seven veils dance. Despite knowing he is in the midst of divorcing Acker, she insists on going to Mexico so they can marry. Once they return to the states, Valentino is arrested for bigamy. Because Jesse Lasky  refuses to pay bail for Valentino, he has to spend the night in jail, where the guards deny him bathroom privileges and, with the other prisoners, taunt him about his lack of masculinity. The result is his complete humiliation. On the set of Monsieur Beaucaire, Rambova and Sidney Olcott  take over directing. Two stage hands, wondering if 'Rambova calls the shots in bed, too', toss a pink powder puff onto Valentino's lap. Rambova demands that whoever did it come forward or she and Valentino will walk off the set for good. Valentino finishes the picture, but Rambova insists he refuse future work at Paramount until Lasky meets certain demands. Lasky suspends them and they end up broke. A man named George Melford  approaches them; Melford is meant to be Valentino's real-life manager, George Ullman.{{Citation needed}} He offers to help them book personal appearances for Mineralava, a beauty product company. The tour is a success, and, with Melford's help, Valentino and Rambova negotiate a good deal with Lasky. A dramatic moment comes when Valentino reads a newspaper article questioning his manhood. Earlier, the film shows Valentino dancing with Vaslav Nijinsky  in a way that casts doubt on Valentino's sexuality. Whatever his true attractions are, the article outrages Valentino, who challenges the reporter to a duel. For 'legal reasons' the duel becomes a boxing match. Rory O'Neil , who just happens to be a professional boxer, stands in for the reporter. The fight becomes a ballet of sorts, and flashbacks to the dance with Nijinsky parallel the match. Valentino eventually lands a blow which wins him the fight. However, he now begins to exhibit signs of an ulcer. O'Neil asks for a rematch, this time a drinking contest. Despite his ulcer, Valentino accepts. Although Valentino defeats O'Neil again, his excessive drinking is too much for the ulcer, which perforates and kills him. The film ends with a shot of Valentino's body on a slab in a mortuary as the credits roll.Mari Collingwood plans to celebrate her 17th birthday by attending a concert with her friend, Phyllis Stone. Her parents, Estelle and John, express concern both at the band and Mari's friendship with Phyllis. They let her go, giving her a peace symbol necklace as a gift before she leaves. Phyllis and Mari go to the city for the concert. On the way, they hear a news report on the car radio of a recent prison escape, involving criminals Krug Stillo, a rapist and serial killer, his son Junior, Sadie, a psychopath and sadist, and Fred "Weasel" Podowski, a child molester, peeping tom, and murderer. Before the concert, Mari and Phyllis stroll the streets, seeking someone who might sell them marijuana. They find Junior, who leads them back to an apartment, where they are immediately trapped by the criminals. Phyllis tries to escape, then tries to reason with the criminals, but fails and is raped by Krug. Meanwhile, Mari's unsuspecting parents prepare a surprise party for her. The next morning, the two friends are locked in a car trunk and taken to the countryside as the gang intends to leave the state. The villains' vehicle malfunctions right in front of Mari's house while police are in her home talking to Mari's parents about her disappearance. Removed from the trunk, Phyllis is beaten as Mari realizes that they are near her own home while she is dragged to the woods. In the woods, both teenagers are untied. Mari and Phyllis are forced to have sex with each other and then Sadie performs oral sex on a weeping Mari. Phyllis runs away to distract the kidnappers and offer Mari an opportunity to escape, but is chased by Sadie and Weasel, while Junior stays behind to guard Mari, who tries to convince Junior that her father can help him, and she gives him her peace symbol necklace as a symbol of her trust. Phyllis manages to hit Sadie in the face and runs, but is then cornered and stabbed to death numerous times by Weasel. Sadie reaches into Phyllis's wounds and pulls out the insides, while Krug and Weasley amputate the hand and half of the forearm. Mari eventually convinces Junior to let her go, but they are immediately halted by Krug. Sadie and Weasel present Phyllis' severed hand and half forearm and Krug proceeds to carve his name into Mari's chest. As Mari screams in pain, Krug tells her that she's gonna "get yours" at which point he pulls down Mari's pants and rapes her. Soon after this act, Mari vomits. At this point, the gang very briefly feel pangs of conscience. Mari quietly says a prayer then walks into a nearby lake. Krug shoots Mari and she floats on the top of the lake. Krug, Sadie, and Weasel wash and change out of their bloody clothes. In their new attire, the gang go to the Collingwoods' home, masquerading as traveling salesmen. Mari's parents agree to let them stay overnight. Junior exposes their identity when Mari's mother, Estelle, sees Mari's peace symbol necklace dangling around his neck. Later that night she listens in to the gang while they are spending the night in Mari's bedroom and finds blood-soaked clothing in their luggage. She and Dr. Collingwood rush out into the woods, where they find Mari on the bank of the lake. They carry Mari's body back to the house then exact revenge against the crooks. Outside, Estelle dupes Weasel into a sex game, then performs fellatio on him. Without warning, she bites off his penis and leaves him to bleed to death. Inside the house, Dr. Collingwood carries his shotgun into his daughter's bedroom, where two of the criminals are sleeping. Krug escapes into the living room and overpowers the doctor, but the criminal is then confronted by his own son, who now brandishes a firearm and threatens to kill him. Krug psychologically manipulates the already troubled young man, demanding him to put the gun in his mouth and blow his brains out. Junior then shoots himself in the head. Then Krug finds out the doctor has disappeared. Sadie rushes outside where she is tackled by Estelle. The two of them wrestle and fight on the ground. Sadie punches Estelle and runs away. She then trips and falls into the pool. Estelle grabs a knife and pulls Sadie up and cuts her throat open, killing her. The doctor kills Krug with the chainsaw and the couple meet each other again in the living room as the police come.Novelist and playwright James Barrie  meets the two oldest Davies boys, George and Jack, during outings with their nurse Mary Hodgson  in Kensington Gardens. He entertains them, especially George, with his fantasy stories, some of which include a magical young boy who shares a name with their infant brother Peter. Barrie and his wife Mary  meet the boys' parents Sylvia  and Arthur  at a dinner party, and he forms a friendship with the mother and her sons. The Barries and Davies socialize, but Mary and Arthur each quietly resent Barrie: Mary for neglecting her, and Arthur for imposing upon his family. Sylvia and Arthur have two more sons, Michael and Nico, whom Barrie adds to his circle of young friends. He writes a play inspired by them: Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up, which is a great success for him and his producer friend Charles Frohman . Arthur is struck by a disfiguring and ultimately fatal cancer. Barrie steps in to support the Davies family, attempting to be a friend to Arthur in his final days but alienating Jack with his interference. With George away at school, sensitive Michael becomes the centre of 'Uncle Jim's' attention. Tired of her husband's indifference toward her, Mary falls in love and has an affair with Barrie's young colleague Gilbert Cannan . When Barrie finds out, Mary refuses to end the affair, and he reluctantly grants her a divorce. Meanwhile, Sylvia has fallen ill with cancer, and dies a few years after her husband. Barrie claims they were engaged. The boys continue to live in the Davies's London house with Mary Hodgson, and Barrie becomes their guardian, following Sylvia's wishes. As the years go by, George becomes an adult confidant to Barrie, while Jack joins the Navy. When World War I breaks out, George and Peter enlist. George is later killed in combat. Jack returns to London to marry. Barrie gives the newlywed the Davies's house, and Michael and Nico move in with him in his flat which prompts Mary Hodgson to resign. Peter returns from the War with a morbid outlook on death. Michael spends increasing time with his school friends and chafes at Barries's desire to keep him close; he drowns short of his 21st birthday. In later years, Barrie suffers loneliness but takes some measure of enjoyment in the company of the young son of his secretary, Lady Cynthia Asquith .The movie starts with a Hearst Metrotone newsreel from the 1930s that tells of the Iowa murder of Ellie Banner by Leonard Hill and Wesley Bruckner. As they are shown being loaded into a paddywagon following the decree of life sentences in prison, the focus shifts to their mothers, Helen Hill  and Adelle Bruckner , as they fight their way through a crowd to their car. Once in the car, the grainy footage shifts to color, and Helen reveals that someone in the crowd cut the palm of her left hand. Soon after arriving home and tending to her wound, Helen receives an anonymous phone call from a man who claims, "I'm the one who cut you.... I wanted to see you bleed." This caller threatens to make the mothers pay for the sins of their sons. Helen and Adelle change their names, leave Iowa and head off to Hollywood, where Adelle opens a dance academy for little girls who want to be the next Shirley Temple. Soon after their arrival, Hamilton Starr , an elocution teacher offers his services to Adelle's school, and she takes him up on his offer, much to Helen's chagrin, as Helen is openly frightened of the menacing man. Soon, the threatening phone calls resume and Helen believes a strange man is watching their home from a street corner. She has hallucinations as well, especially at one point of a show where she think she sees Starr with a knife. Adelle falls in love with Lincoln Palmer , the father of one of her students, and Helen grows increasingly jealous of the budding relationship. Helen takes solace in her faith, religiously listening to a radio show hosted by evangelist Sister Alma . Helen's jealousy of Adelle's romance with Lincoln leads to a fight between the two, at which point, Adelle demands that Helen move out. Adelle then heads off for her date with Linc. As Helen readies herself to move out, a mysterious intruder enters the house, walks up the staircase, and calls out her real name. Helen reacts by pushing him down the stairs. When he lands at the bottom, his head is gashed open, blood seeping across the floor, and Helen envisions both her late husband, who was mutilated by a plow, and the dead Ellie Banner. Adelle arrives home to find the dead stranger and, fearing more publicity, decides that they must dispose of the body. As the rain pounds down, she and Helen drag the dead man into the street and dump him into an open hole adjacent to their home where crews had been doing construction. The body is discovered the next morning, and it is presumed the man fell into the hole to his death. Helen's guilt builds and she pays a visit to the church to see Sister Alma and atone for her sins. Sister Alma offers her forgiveness, but an irrational Helen makes a spectacle of herself and has to be dragged away by Adelle. Off-screen, Helen sees a doctor and is ordered to bed rest. Adelle goes to a miniature golf course with Linc, where he proposes to her. He drives her home to make preparations to elope that evening. Soon after arriving home, Adelle notices that Helen is not in her room and follows a trail of blood out the back door and down to the rabbit cage, where she finds Helen's beloved pet rabbits slaughtered. Helen steps out of the shadows and reveals that she killed them as well as also pushed her husband off a plow to his death. Adelle leads Helen back into the house and is phoning Sister Alma, when she lets it slip that she plans to wed Lincoln. Helen reacts by pulling a knife from the pocket of her robe and stabbing Adelle in the back, numerous times. Just after Adelle falls down dead, the doorbell chimes. Helen answers the door and finds a detective, who shows her a photo of the man she pushed down the staircase. When she claims not to recognize him, the detective reveals the man was Ellie Banner's boyfriend, who had come to California with plans to murder the ladies. A little while later, Lincoln arrives, expecting to whisk Adelle away for their elopement. From the street, he can hear someone pounding away "Goody Goody" on the piano. He enters the house calling out Adelle's name and follows the sounds of the piano up the staircase to the rehearsal hall. There, he finds Helen giddily playing the song and Adelle, dressed in her signature dance costume, propped up and tied to a ladder on stage. The music grows more and more frantic as Helen laughs, and the camera moves in for a final closeup.Expecting only the basic pressures of attending Harvard Law School, a serious, hard-working student named James Hart , a recent graduate of the University of Minnesota, finds himself the fearful adversary of the school's most imperious, sardonic contracts professor, Charles W. Kingsfield Jr. . Their relationship grows even more complex when the young man discovers that the woman he is dating, Susan Fields , is his professor's daughter. Graham Beckel, Edward Herrmann, and James Naughton co-star as other law students. The film is an extremely faithful adaptation of the novel, but it adds two revelations not in the book: Hart's first name and middle initial , and the final grade that Hart got in Contract Law. In both the novel and the film, Hart makes a paper airplane out of his final report card, and sends it sailing into the Atlantic Ocean without looking at it. Kingsfield's words of advice to his class: "You teach yourselves the law, but I train your minds. You come in here with a skull full of mush; you leave thinking like a lawyer."Con-artist Harry Bundage  believes that there is a great treasure at Candleshoe, the large country estate of Lady St Edmund . Harry recruits American Casey Brown —a street kid—into the plot, employing her to pose as Lady St Edmund's granddaughter, the Honourable Margaret, 4th Marchioness of St Edmond, who disappeared as a baby after her father died in a car crash. Lady St Edmund, however, is poor and owes money in back taxes. Priory , her butler , and some local orphan children help keep the estate finances one step ahead of the government by selling produce made on the estate. All of this happens unknown to Lady St Edmund. Initially Casey enters the con attempting to find the location of the treasure; but her affections gradually turn towards that of the household and Lady St Edmund. She eventually joins them in their quest to uncover Lady St Edmund's treasure for the benefit of Candleshoe, rather than for Bundage. This nearly costs the young girl her life when she is seriously injured trying to prevent Harry from stealing money from Lady St Edmund. Casey is taken to hospital unconscious with severe concussion and remains there for several days before she has recovered enough to return to Candleshoe and try to stop Bundage once and for all. The four clues revealed in the hunt for the treasure: *"For the sunrise student there is treasure among books." *"The paths of glory lead but to the grave."  *"He followed the eclipse for riches and fame; and, if ye would prosper, do ye the same." *"Underfoot, in the great hall. Look high, look low, discover all." Casey Brown's "open sesame" for Lady St. Edmund is a piece of music, "Greensleeves." Casey pretends to remember the tune when a music box is discovered hidden in the fireplace.Lionel Aldridge is an advertising executive in New York City who finds that, despite his success, he is depressed and unfulfilled. His mid-life crisis drives him to leave his wife and family, and he throws himself into a series of love affairs only to find that they leave him no closer to finding meaning in his life.{{expand section}} Ben , Larry , Alan , and Steve ([[Lou Richards  are college seniors who are terrified at the prospect of working for a living. They create a plan to support themselves as graduate research students by getting a foundation grant to study sexuality in college-age women.The film traces the sexual awakening of Theresa Dunn, a young teacher searching for excitement outside of her mundane existence. Suffering with severe body image issues and a sense of inadequacy following a childhood surgery that left a large scar on her back, Irish American Theresa finds first love with her older, married university professor, who ends the affair as her time in college comes to an end. The end of the affair leaves Theresa feeling used, and she begins daydreaming about being reunited with her professor. Theresa enters the sexual revolution of the 1970s feeling confused, as she is simultaneously repelled and attracted to the sexual experimentation she witnesses going on around her. Although she continues to teach by day, developing a reputation as a gifted and caring teacher to deaf children, at night she goes clubbing at a series of increasingly seedy bars, picking up men for one-night stands. The recreational sexual encounters slowly become an addiction, as Theresa begins pursuing more dangerous men with violent sexual proclivities to enhance her "high". She views her one night stands with shady low-lifes as a way to provide excitement and adventure to her otherwise boring and ordinary existence. An encounter with an Italian thug named Tony  develops into a nascent relationship, and the two begin regularly meeting for increasingly rough and dangerous sex, culminating in Tony's introduction of a switchblade knife into their sex play. Meanwhile, Theresa attempts to date a welfare case worker named James, whom her family holds up as the paragon of Irish-American youth. The relationship quickly falters, as James turns out to be just as shallow and emotionally manipulative as Tony. Theresa ultimately breaks up with Tony, who then stalks her, including harassing her outside the school where she works until the older brother of one of her students beats him up. With the new year approaching, Theresa resolves to leave her clubbing behind and take control of her life. Seeking one final hookup on New Year's Eve, Theresa picks up a man named Gary, who turns out to be a sexually confused war veteran. At Theresa's apartment, Gary finds himself unnable to attain an erection. Misreading Theresa's frustration as her questioning his sexuality, Gary attacks her and begins beating and raping her. After Theresa screams "Do it!" Gary stabs her to death. Theresa's dead face drifts farther away from the screen and into a black void as the film ends.Aaron Loves Angela is about two teenagers living in the slums of New York City who are deeply in love with each other. Angela , who is Puerto Rican, falls in love with Aaron , who is black. Their relationship is not approved by either of their parents. They both rebel against their parents' prejudices, but soon find out that their friends and neighbors share the same prejudices as their parents.The film is set in Elizabethan England and revolves around a wicked magistrate who tries to kill all the members of a coven of witches. Lord Charles Whitman is hosting a great feast when suddenly two poor and ragged-looking little children enter the great hall. A burst of wolf-like howling from outside the walls warns that they may be "devil-marked." The lord decides to kill them in spite of the risk. As his eldest son sleeps with his pretty young wife and his daughter seeks out her favorite hairy-chested servant for comfort, Lord Whitman begins mumbling that he wants to "clean up" the witches in the area, especially "that decrepit old bag, Oona." Assisted by his two older sons, Whitman goes hunting in the hills for witches, odd characters, and "persons of interest." His armed posse breaks up what is apparently meant to be a witches' Black Sabbath, but none of the strangely glassy-eyed and zombie-like young people dancing slowly in their underwear seems to have any knowledge of Oona's whereabouts. Whitman gives the order to "torch this place, grease 'em all" and many of Ooona's followers are killed. This makes the leader of the coven, Oona, extremely angry. To get revenge on the Whitman clan Oona calls up a magical servant, a "sidhe", to destroy the lord's family. Unfortunately, the demonic beast takes possession of the friendly, decent young servant that free-spirited Maureen Whitman has been in love with for years. The possessed lad makes Maureen rebel against her father, and destroy all his protection against evil spirits. Soon the once proud family are virtually prisoners in their own home, the grounds surrounded by a growing pack of wolves that howl and prowl. Meanwhile, Lord Whitman's youngest son Michael comes home from school and is appalled by his father's cruel actions. As the wolf-howling outside grows ever louder, he begs his father to mellow out and to help his sister. But instead Charles Whitman has his own son killed for being "soft" on witchcraft. Whitman then tries to escape in his elegant coach with his daughter and her lover. Instead he finds that demons are driving the coach! Whitman dies horribly, along with his remaining children. The titular "cry of the banshee" is the signal that someone will die.Simon , a student at a fictional university in San Francisco  is indifferent to the student protests around him, until walking in on a naked woman  in his dormitory roommate's bed. While she quickly runs over to the toilets to dress, Simon protests to his roommate that their time should only be devoted to studying, so they can get good jobs and lots of money. Coming back clothed, the woman refuses setting another date with the roommate because she'll be busy protesting. She explains the university's plan to construct a gymnasium in an African-American neighborhood, thus causing conflict with the local African American population. She tells him that she and others plan to take over one of the university's buildings. Simon later experiences love at first sight with a stranger female student  and uses his photographer position in the college's journal to photograph her. Following her into the university building the students are taking over, he joins the takeover just by being there. She approaches him while he boringly fools around in the toilets. She says her name is Linda and asks him to rob a food store with her so the striking students can eat. In a later student protest, Simon is arrested. He then tells Linda he is not a radical like her. He does not want to "blow the college building" after doing his best to be accepted into the school in the first place. Linda later claims she can't see someone who is not likewise dedicated to the movement. Nevertheless, she announces temporarily leaving college to decide for sure. In the showers, the rightist jock George beats up Simon, who decides to take advantage of the situation and use his injuries from George to fake police brutality. Gaining fame, his friend tells him "a white version of page 43" of Simon's National Geographic looks for him. Alone in a filing room, a large breasted redhead with a tight sweater smiles at Simon. Seeing his injured lip, she puts his hands on her large right breast and asks if it feels better now. She then takes off her sweater telling Simon "did you know Lenin loved women with big breasts?" After quick flashes of her large breasts, Simon confirms liking them, but asks her if she saw The Graduate. Replying no, she takes him between some filing cabinets and takes off his belt. To her surprise, Simon does not want people to see whatever it is she plans to do to with him. When asking her if she at least locked the door, she confirms unconvincingly and immediately opens up some filing cabinets to hide them. Simon is worried, but she promises him no one will know. She then says she will give him something a "hero" like him deserves, ducks down and gives him an off-screen blowjob, zooming up on Che Guevara's famous poster staring in the air in its implacable expression. After Linda returns, she announces deciding to be with Simon. They spend the rest of that day together – and implicitly the night. The following day, they make out in a park when a group of African-Americans approaches them. The anti-racism Caucasian rebels fear for their lives. One African-American drops Simon's camera to the ground and stomps on it, but the group then simply leaves. A furious Simon meets the strikers, saying those they help are no different than the cops and the establishment and questioning why they should help those who disrespect and even threaten him. Simon re-thinks his comparison, though, after visiting none other than George the – now leftist – jock in the hospital. George's leg is in a cast after rightist jocks beat him up while cops watched. Simon goes to personally warn the dean's secretary to call off the construction of the gymnasium or risk a war. A group of African American students then show up, proving Simon's previous generalization wrong. Eventually, a SWAT team crushes the university building takeover in seconds with tear gas. With the strikers all lying choking, the SWAT members pull out African Americans from the crowd and beat them up with police clubs. When the others protest, they get the same treatment. With Linda being carried away kicking and screaming, Simon takes on a group of cops all by himself and segments of his happier times in college flash before the viewers' eyes.An architect David Ortega  finally finds his true love after a lifetime of searching. They marry, and soon afterward discover that his woman Anna  has an incurable disease. She is frozen until the day her condition is curable. That day does not come until 40 years later. The architect is now quite old, and though their love is as strong as ever, he dies soon afterwards.Jessica Barrett is a young mother in San Francisco. Her family and friends begin to notice odd behavior around the time she falls pregnant with her third child. As the strangeness intensifies, Jessica begins to display signs of demonic possession including spinning her head all the way around and projectile vomiting. Dimitri, a lover from her past, shows up claiming to be able to help her, but it turns out he is in league with the entity possessing her, and is aiding the birth of her child, assumed to be the Antichrist, in exchange for the thing saving his life years before. The film ends with the entity turning on Dimitri, and suggesting all events were done for its own amusement. The entity then kills Dimitri, leaves Jessica's body, and the child is stillborn. At the end of the movie the young boy is seen throwing a toy red car  in the bay suggesting that he is the Antichrist.The following plot summary can equally be applied to the original opera: After an unsuccessful attempt to seduce Donna Anna , Don Giovanni ([[bass  kills her father Il Commendatore . The next morning, Giovanni meets Donna Elvira , a woman he previously seduced and abandoned. Later, Giovanni happens upon the preparations for a peasant wedding and tries to seduce the bride-to-be Zerlina , but his ambition is frustrated by Donna Elvira. Donna Anna soon realizes that Giovanni killed her father, and she pursues the seducer along with her fiance Don Ottavio . Ever ready to attempt a seduction, Giovanni woos Elvira's maid. As part of his plans, he switches clothes with his servant Leporello , who rapidly finds himself in trouble with people who mistake him for his master. Leporello flees and eventually meets Giovanni at the cemetery where Il Commendatore is buried. They jokingly invite the statue at his grave to dinner. While they are dining, the supernaturally animated statue arrives, and the horrified Giovanni is drawn into an open-pit fire.Sandy and Jonathan are roommates at Amherst College whose lives are explored and seem to offer a contrast to one another. Spanning a 25-year period, from their college years in the mid-1940s to middle aged adulthood in the early 1970s, the film explores their relationships with various women, Susan, Bobbie, Jennifer, Cindy, and Louise.It is the story of a boy named Benny who is bored in the apartment house where his parents don't have time to talk or play with him. Outdoors, Benny catches a tadpole which he takes home into the bathtub. Benny discovers the tadpole is an enchanted prince, who dives with Benny to the bottom of the bathtub and into a magical ocean world. In this fantastic world Benny meets pirates, mermaids and an octopus and experiences the things he misses in his daily life.A young woman dies of a heroin overdose. Four junkies who knew her commandeer her car and spend 24 hours searching the streets of Melbourne for good quality heroin, and excitement.Manhattanite Julie Messinger, a complacent housewife and mother of two raucous young sons, is married to Richard, a chauvinistic and self-centered magazine art director and author of a best-selling children's book. When he falls into a coma during minor surgery to remove a nonmalignant mole on his neck, Julie learns from his doctor, Dr. Timmy Spector, that another surgeon nicked his artery, necessitating a blood transfusion to which he had a rare allergic reaction. The following day, Julie is told Richard has overcome the reaction, but his liver has sustained serious damage requiring immediate treatment. In quick succession, all his organs begin to fail. While trying to comfort Julie, family friend Cal Whiting reveals his girlfriend Miranda has confessed to having had a lengthy affair with Richard. Distressed by the news, Julie seeks advice from her egocentric mother but finds herself unable to discuss her husband's infidelity. She decides to confront Miranda and asks her what future she anticipated having with her husband. Miranda confesses she and Richard are deeply in love and have discussed marriage, although thus far she has been unable to make such a permanent commitment. Julie begins to unravel emotionally. She visits Cal, whose attempted seduction of her fails due to impotence. At the hospital, she tells the unconscious Richard she will never divorce him and vows to ruin his reputation. Timmy invites her to his apartment for drinks and admits he was aware of Richard's affair not only with Miranda, but with other women as well, and kept them secret out of a sense of loyalty to his friend. Stunned and confused, Julie lashes out at Timmy, then seduces him, and he succumbs to her advances. At home later that evening, Julie finds a black book in Richard's desk and realizes it contains coded data about his numerous extramarital affairs, many of them with her friends. She gives it to Cal, who then shows it to Miranda to prove she was just one of Richard's many conquests. The following day, Richard goes into cardiac arrest, and Julie realizes she wants him to survive despite his betrayal of her. When Timmy reports her husband has died, a grieving Julie takes her sons for a walk in Central Park to contemplate their future.In October 1974, Raggedy Ann is the beloved doll of Marcella, along with her brother Raggedy Andy and a whole nursery full of colorful toys. Whenever Marcella leaves the room, the dolls come to life. On Marcella's birthday, a new doll, Babette, arrives from Paris, France to the United States of America. Babette is a spoiled creature who is unaware she is a doll, but the friendly Raggedy Ann does everything she can to make Babette feel at home. Soon, however, the pirate Captain Contagious, who lives in Marcella's snow globe, becomes enamored of Babette and kidnaps her. Raggedy Ann and Andy set off to try to rescue her before Marcella discovers Babette is gone. Out in the world outside the nursery, the two meet the Camel with the Wrinkled Knees, a blue toy camel who has been cast off by past owners and is now heartbroken and lonely. Raggedy Ann assures him a home with Marcella, and he joins their rescue party. After Raggedy Ann and Andy hitch a ride on the Camel, he begins to follow hallucinations of a parade of camels ascending to heaven. While he's distracted, he runs over the edge of a cliff into a deep pit. In this pit they encounter the Greedy, a gluttonous, blob-like monster presumably made of sticky candy, who eats constantly and is never full. While singing about the plight of never being happy despite his unending consumption, he reveals that the only thing that could satisfy him is a sweetheart, presumably a romantic partner, but he decides that the candy heart Raggedy Ann has sewn up inside her would do just as well. The Raggedys and the Camel narrowly escape being consumed by the Greedy and continue their journey to find Babette. While travelling through the woods, they encounter Sir Leonard Looney, a purple knight with a penchant for humiliating gags. He tricks the trio and kidnaps them to Looney Land, where all the practical gags are. They are then introduced to the court of King Koo Koo, a near microscopic king who has a part of him expand every time he laughs at someone else. He finds that the curious little trio that has been brought to him do a good job of making him expand overall when they subjected to Sir Leonard Looney's gags. Before the King can find a better use for them, the Raggedys and the Camel escape out an exit, leaving King Koo Koo to shrink back down to his regular size. King Koo Koo then decides that the Raggedies are perfect and will be just what he needs to accomplish what he has been waiting for his entire life - his "Last Laugh." He calls up his cohort Gadzooks, a giant, green, inner tube-like sea creature with a massive array of arms and discusses his plans. Meanwhile, the Raggedys and the Camel have found a getaway boat, and are getting away from Looney Land posthaste. Using a telescope aboard the bizarre little ship, they are able to spot the Captain's pirate vessel, and are able to zoom in toward the ship and haul themselves on board. When Babette is finally found, the Raggedys discover that she is no longer in need of rescue. She has in fact charmed the pirate crew, raised a mutiny against Captain Contagious, and has assumed command of the ship, in the ultimate hope of sailing back to Paris. Just then, King Koo Koo, with assistance from Gadzooks, arrives on the scene, and begins to snatch passengers and crew alike off the boat, notably most of the male pirate crew, Raggedy Andy, the Camel and Captain Contagious. Gadzooks begins his "tickle torture" causing King Koo Koo to expand completely, achieving his goal of being "the biggest king in the world." Raggedy Ann and Babette are hiding underneath the canopy of one of the escape boats, with Queasy, the Captain's faithful parrot, trying to figure out what to do when they  decide that King Koo Koo should "blow - up!" King Koo Koo, who had been eavesdropping on Raggedy Ann and Babette, has them quickly subjected to the same tickle-torture, while Queasy rockets towards the massive balloon that King Koo Koo has become. King Koo Koo, who now dominates the horizon, celebrates his enormous size and finally getting his last laugh while Queasy collides into King KooKoo beak-first, like a pin into a balloon, causing him to explode. Raggedy Ann and Andy are seen spinning around in a wormhole, along with the Camel, before the screen goes dark. They are then discovered the next day, along with Babette, the Captain and the remains of his ship, in a small pond outside. Marcella brings her toys back in, missing the Camel in a pile of leaves. Later that evening the Camel crawls up to the window, where Raggedy Ann and her friends let him in, and he realizes he has finally found home. Marcella finds the Camel among her dear toy friends, and while she is at first puzzled by his appearance in her room, she embraces him and accepts him as her own.Television personality Dan Bartlett, having difficulties with his wife and TV co-star Sheila, retreats to his Arizona ranch. When the body of Mary Little Cloud is found in his car trunk, Dan is placed under arrest. Freed for lack of evidence, Dan returns home to find attractive, scantily clad Crazy Hollister there. Her stepfather John Ed owns a half-million-acre property nearby. Crazy is upset that John Ed has blocked her inheritance and may have even murdered her mother. Sheila shows up and believes she has caught Dan having an affair, but Crazy convinces her that's not true. Meanwhile, county recorder Snagby tries to blackmail John Ed with information Mary Little Cloud gave him, but John Ed's evil henchman Reese has him killed. Sheriff Riley once again thinks Dan is responsible. The Bartletts are taken captive by Reese and sealed inside a cave. There they renew their love. Riley is able to free them while Crazy finds proof that Mary Little Cloud had a document showing her tribe to be the lawful owner of John Ed's land. Reese is betrayed by John Ed, who ultimately learns that crime doesn't pay. Dan and Sheila can't wait to get back to their old lives.In 1970s Hollywood, small-time auto mechanic Bobby  and fast food waitress Rose  meet, and fall in love. They dream of a life in Hawaii, and talk of living there in the near future. One night, Bobby’s prank of the “fake” robbery of a convenience store with a shotgun backfires: a young shopkeeper is killed in an accidental homicide. Following the accident, Bobby and Rose become fugitives, and Rose becomes worried about the future of her five-year-old son. They decide to go on the run in Bobby’s 1968 Chevrolet Camaro.When Jack Mitchell, a lonely, middle-aged salesman from Utica, New York, meets his old fraternity brother Larry Moore while on business in Chicago, he asks him to introduce him to a nice woman. Larry gives him T.R. Baskin's phone number, and Jack invites her to visit him at his hotel. Following an awkward silence, the two end up in bed, where T.R. begins to tell Jack about her past, a story that unfolds via flashback. After moving to Chicago from a small town in Ohio, T.R. is forced to rent a studio apartment in a dilapidated building in a run-down area of the city. She finds employment as a typist in a large corporation where she meets Dayle Wigoda, who arranges a blind date with her boyfriend's wealthy friend Arthur, who proves to be an obnoxious bigot and misogynist. T.R. realizes she'd rather be alone than spend time with such a callous individual. One night, after leaving a noisy bar, T.R. sees Larry reading a book at the window of a café. She joins him at his table and learns he edits and publishes textbooks. The two go to his apartment and discuss their individual disappointments. Larry misses spending time with his children, while T.R. confesses she always has felt like an outsider. The two make love, and the following morning T.R. feels she finally has taken the first step towards an intimate relationship, only to discover Larry has put a $20 bill in her coat pocket. Feeling betrayed and humiliated, she rushes out. At home, T.R. calls her parents for consolation but instead receives a lecture about her decision to move to Chicago. Back in the present once again, T.R. and Jack agree they're glad they met each other, and T.R. leaves the hotel, optimistically believing better days are in her future.Petra von Kant  is a prominent fashion designer based in Bremen. The film is almost totally restricted to her apartment's bedroom, decorated by a huge reproduction of Poussin's Midas and Bacchus  depicting naked and partially clothed men. The room also contains numerous life-size mannequins for her work, though only her assistant Marlene  is shown using them. Petra's marriages have ended in death or divorce. Her first husband, Pierre, was a great love, who died in a car accident while Petra was pregnant; the second began the same way, but ended in disgust. Petra lives with Marlene, another designer, whom she treats as a slave, and reveals her sadistic side by making codependent relationships. Von Kant is shown being awoken by Marlene. She proceeds to begin her day and get dressed while her assistant attends to her. Von Kant makes a phone call to her mother, makes demands of Marlene , and dons a brown wig just before she receives a visitor. Petra talks to Sidonie , her cousin, about her male relationships. Meanwhile, Marlene does the work and acts as hostess. Karin Thimm , Sidonie's friend, joins the women. Karin newly returned to Germany after residing in Sydney for five years, is a desirable, 23-year-old woman. Petra is immediately attracted to Karin, and at this first meeting, suggests Karin becomes a model. Karin agrees to return the following day, but Sidonie has to leave and Karin follows her. Petra quickly falls madly in love with Karin. The next day, with Marlene showing clearer signs of frustration, but still typing, Petra, now wearing a larger and dark wig, offers to support Karin while she trains to be a model. Karin's husband has remained in Sydney, though Petra is only momentarily put off by this revelation. The women soon show their incompatibility. Petra had a happy childhood, and came from a home where the good things in life were always stressed. Karin's father was a toolmaker, and she always felt neglected by her parents. Petra loved mathematics and algebra at school, but Karin could never understand arithmetic and the point of substituting letters for numbers. Petra has a daughter, whom she rarely sees, but reassures herself that her daughter is at the best possible boarding school. Karin's parents are now both dead. Her father killed Karin's mother, then hanged himself. She says people reject her when they find out about her history, but Petra now admits to a great affection for her, even stronger after having heard her family history. Petra orders Marlene to get a bottle of Sekt. Karin goes into more details about her parents death. Her father was made redundant because of his age, though it is clear he was probably alcoholic, and the deaths occurred when he was in a drunken stupor. Karin feels she has drifted in her life, her husband in Sydney treated her as a slave, and offered no reprieve from her past, but Petra insists this is about to change. Marlene returns with the bottle of Sekt in a tumbler, silently returns to her typing, and the other two women toast each other. Petra promises to make Karin a great model. Marlene, previously hidden by a curtain, stops typing and glares at Petra. While listening to a record, Petra says life is predestined, people are brutal and hard and everyone is replaceable. Petra, discovering the expense of Karin's hotel, suggests she move in with her. Marlene resumes her typing, but after Karin agrees to move in with Petra, she is ordered to bring more Sekt. While Petra admits to being in love with Karin, Karin herself can only say she likes Petra. Six months or so pass. Petra, resplendent in a red wig, is getting dressed, while Karin is in bed reading a colour magazine. Petra cancels a flight to Madrid over the telephone, a habit which Karin thinks is pointless, and Petra orders Marlene to find her shoes. Karin thinks Marlene is strange, but Petra reassures her that Marlene loves her. Karin can still not say she loves Petra. Karin's own capacity for cruelty emerges, while both women have already started drinking. The previous night Karin had been out until 6am, and admits to having been with a man, though she keeps changing her precise story; Petra is jealous and shouts at Marlene. Freddy, Karin's husband, telephones from Zurich. It emerges they have been in contact by letter, and Karin is no longer planning on gaining a divorce, rather she is rejoining her husband. Petra calls her a "rotten little whore", and Karin responds that being with Petra is less strenuous than walking the streets. She asks Petra to book a flight to Frankfurt, where she is to meet her husband, and asks for 500DM from Petra, though Petra freely gives her twice that. Marlene drives Karin to the airport; Petra is now too drunk to drive. On Petra's birthday, the bedroom is almost empty. Petra, lying on the floor and now wearing a blond wig, is drinking heavily while assuming her object of love and hate, Karin, will phone. Her daughter Gaby  arrives. Petra tells her little; Gaby admits to being in love with a young man, though it is so far unrequited. Sidonie appears with a birthday present: a doll with a blond hair like Karin's. She admits to knowing Karin is in Bremen that day. Petra's mother Valerie  is subjected to abuse in her turn. Petra accuses her of being a whore, who never worked and lived off her husband. Petra tramples on the china tea service Marlene had brought in; she insists on an ability to smash anything she has bought. She insists she is not crazy about Karin, but loved her. She claims Karin's little finger is worth all of them put together. Her mother, previously unaware of Karin, is shocked at the thought of her daughter being in love with another woman. Petra rejects Sidonie and hopes not to see her again, but Sidonie stays. Later, Petra lies in bed sans wig, her natural auburn hair on display. She is apologetic to her mother, and realizes she wanted to possess Karin rather than love her. Karin rings from Paris, offering the chance that they will perhaps meet again. Petra turns to Marlene, after her mother has left, and admits she has to apologize to her for many things. It will be different from now on, Petra will share her life with Marlene. But Marlene, who has satisfied her personal masochistic desire in submitting to Petra, packs her small suitcase leaves and takes the doll with her.Carrie White is a shy, friendless teenage girl abused by her unstable religious fanatic mother Margaret. The girls at Bates High School also harass Carrie, with Chris Hargensen being especially cruel at her. One day at the school, Carrie experiences her first period while showering after gym class, and, because of her sheltered life, becomes hysterical, thinking she is dying. Chris and another popular girl, Sue Snell notice Carrie's horror. Rather than help, they and the other girls throw tampons and sanitary pads at her before the gym teacher, Miss Collins intervenes. As Carrie becomes more frantic, a light bulb bursts just before Miss Collins makes the other girls leave. Miss Collins brings Carrie to Principal Morton's office. While consoling her, Principal Morton repeatedly calls Carrie "Cassie", unintentionally emphasizing how overlooked she is. When Carrie corrects the principal in a rage, an ashtray from the principal's desk flips onto the floor. While Carrie is walking home, a neighborhood boy taunts her and then instantly crashes his bike, breaking his ankle. Margaret, Carrie's mother, receives a call from Miss Collins about the incident in the locker room. Margaret attacks Carrie and yells at her that the "curse of blood" is a big punishment for sin. She locks Carrie in a closet and forces her to pray. That night, a miserable and sad Carrie stares at her bedroom mirror until it shatters. The next day, English teacher Mr. Fromm reads a poem to the class written by Sue's athletic boyfriend Tommy Ross. Fromm invites the class to critique Tommy's work, but mocks Carrie when she calls it "beautiful", which irks Tommy, who defends Carrie. Sue, feeling guilty for teasing Carrie, convinces Tommy to take Carrie to the prom. Meanwhile, Miss Collins berates the girls who tormented Carrie, subjecting them to a week-long boot-camp-style detention, threatening them with suspension from school and the prom if they do not attend. All the girls show remorse except for Chris, who throws a fit to Miss Collins. Miss Collins has her banned from the prom. Although her rich lawyer father tries to lift the ban, it is unsuccessfull. Meanwhile, after another few incidents, Carrie suspects she may have telekinesis, and researches it in the library on the subject and how to control it. In there, Tommy spots Carrie and asks her to go to prom with him, but she rejects him, fearing another trick from Sue. After a pep talk from Miss Collins, Carrie accepts Tommy's invitation. Carrie goes home, makes her own dress, and tells her mother she is going to the prom, but Margaret declares the prom an occasion of sin, refusing to let her attend. However, Carrie causes the windows of the house to slam shut, revealing her telekinesis. Margaret believes this is Satan's power, but Carrie insists she will go to the prom. Meanwhile, on the prom night, Chris tells her delinquent boyfriend, Billy Nolan, that she wants revenge on Carrie. She goes with Billy and other kids to a farm, where Billy breaks in and kills a pig. After draining the pig's blood into a bucket, Billy drives to the school with Chris, breaks in over the roof and places the bucket above the stage, with Chris holding the rope and waiting for Carrie. Chris makes a deal with her friend, Norma Watson, and Billy's friend, Freddy, to rig the prom king and queen election so that Tommy and Carrie will win. As Carrie prepares for the evening, her mother tells her everyone will laugh at her. Carrie leaves with Tommy. Though her classmates are surprised to see Carrie at the prom, they treat her as an equal. Sue, who was unable to attend due to lacking a date, sneaks into the prom to ensure everything goes well for Carrie. To Carrie's surprise, she and Tommy are named prom king and queen. As the couple approaches the stage, Sue discovers Chris holding a rope attached to the bucket of pig's blood. Miss Collins forces Sue out, believing she is there for mischief. As the crown is placed on Carrie's head and she kisses Tommy, Chris pulls the rope and Carrie is drenched in pig's blood. As the crowd looks on in silence, Tommy is knocked unconscious by the bucket that falls down, and Carrie sees the whole room laughing and jeering at her, when it is implied that only a few of Chris's friends are actually doing so. Carrie, overcomed by shame and rage, shifs and her telekinesis takes over her mind, closing the doors to the gym and turning on a fire hose, spraying few of the kids. Chris and Billy's friends are knocked out by the fire hose along with many other people, and Miss Collins is killed by a falling ceiling rafter. Chris and Billy sneak out of the school stage and run away. Principal Morton and Mr. Fromm are electrocuted when the electrocuted rope touches the floor, which causes a fire in the gym. Leaving her classmates inside the school as it burns, Carrie walks home covered in blood. As she walks through the street, Billy and Chris, running away, spot her. Chris urges Billy to kill her, and he tries to run her over. Carrie flips over the car, which explodes. At home, Carrie breaks down in her mother's arms. However, by this time Margaret has gone completely insane; believing the devil has taken over Carrie, Margaret brings the girl to her knees and stabs Carrie in the back. Carrie falls down the stairs and is cornered in the kitchen by her mother, who takes the knife, but she sends kitchen knives flying at her mother, killing her and having her body shaped in the form of the crucified Saint Sebastian. Overcome with guilt and grief, Carrie uses her last ounce of strength to collapse the house upon her and her mother, committing suicide. Some time later, Sue, the only survivor of the prom, dreams of visiting the plot where Carrie's house stood. As she places flowers on the ground, a bloody hand grabs Sue's wrist. The movie ends with Sue waking up screaming in her mother's arms.Led by Denise , the dumb blonde that isn't as dumb as you think, a party of holiday-makers, all of them, except one, women, become lost in an island jungle and stalked by a deranged tribe of murderous natives. A feminist , a mother , her daughter  and a swinging smooth operator  round out the other endangered tourists.Monique  is a French au pair who goes to work for Jean  and her husband Bill . She takes time to care for the children before getting to know husband and wife intimately. Bill soon notices his wife has becomes more sexually aroused. After Bill sleeps with Monique, he comes home one day to discover the two women in bed together.Charles Richardson is a civil servant in his early 30s, working in the Department of Development, Salt Lake City, Utah, and an impetuous romantic. One day he meets Laura Conley in the filing department of his office and it is love at first sight. Laura is a married woman who has just moved out on her husband Ox, a log home salesman. She is disillusioned by own marriage and wants to find herself. Charles gathers courage and asks her out. Soon she moves in with him and seems happy. But she starts having second thoughts. According to Laura, he loves her too much. "You have this exalted view of me, and I hate it. If you think I'm that great then there must be something wrong with you." Laura leaves Charles and goes back to her husband, Ox. Sam, recently unemployed as a jacket salesman, moves in with Charles, who tries to grapple with the loss of Laura. Charles's mother, meanwhile, is an eccentric who has suicidal thoughts. Charles begins to make efforts to win Laura back. Charles finds out from his secretary, Betty, that Laura has left Ox once again and is living in an apartment with a roommate.In Paris, France, in 1910, a mother cat named Duchess and her three kittens, Marie, Berlioz, and Toulouse, live in the mansion of retired opera singer Madame Adelaide Bonfamille, along with her English butler Edgar. She early on settles her will with her lawyer Georges Hautecourt, an aged, eccentric old friend of hers, stating that she wishes for her fortune to be left to her cats, who will retain it until their deaths, upon which her fortune will revert to Edgar. Edgar hears this from his own room through speaking tube and is unwilling to wait for the cats to die naturally before he inherits Madame Adelaide's fortune, and plots to remove the cats from a position of inheritance. He sedates the cats by putting sleeping pills into the cats' food and then heads out into the countryside to release them in the wild. However he is attacked by two hound dogs, named Napoleon and Lafayette. Edgar escapes, leaving behind his umbrella, hat, the cats' bed-basket, and the sidecar of his motorcycle. The cats are unharmed, but stranded in the countryside, while Madame Adelaide, Roquefort the mouse, and Frou-Frou the horse discover their absence. In the morning, Duchess meets an alley cat named Thomas O'Malley, who offers to guide her and the kittens to Paris. Marie, Berlioz, and Toulouse have a struggle returning to the city, briefly hitchhiking on the back of a milk cart before being chased off by the driver. Marie subsequently falls into a river and is saved by O'Malley. They then meet a pair of English geese, Amelia and Abigail Gabble, who are on a tour of France. The group head off, marching like geese, until they reach Paris and come across the girls' drunken Uncle Waldo. Abigail and Amelia then depart to take Waldo home. Travelling across the rooftops of the city, the cats meet Scat Cat and his band, close friends to O'Malley, who perform the song Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat. After the band has departed and the kittens lie in bed, O'Malley and Duchess spend the evening on a nearby rooftop and talk, while the kittens listen at a windowsill. The subject of their conversation is the question of whether Duchess may stay and marry Thomas. Eventually, she turns him down, largely out of loyalty to Madame Adelaide. Edgar, meanwhile, retrieves his sidecar, umbrella, and hat from Napoleon and Layafette with some difficulty, knowing that it's the only evidence that could incriminate him. The cats make it back to the mansion, whereupon O'Malley departs sadly. Edgar sees Duchess and Kittens coming and captures them, places them in a sack and briefly hides them in an oven. The cats tell Roquefort to pursue O'Malley and get help. He does so, whereupon O'Malley races back to the mansion, ordering Roquefort to find Scat Cat and his gang. Edgar places the cats in a trunk which he plans to send to Timbuktu, Africa. O'Malley, Scat Cat and his gang, and Frou-Frou all fight Edgar, while Roquefort frees Duchess and the kittens. In the end, Edgar is tipped into the trunk, locked inside, and sent to Timbuktu himself. Madame Adelaide's will is rewritten to exclude Edgar and include O'Malley . She starts a charity foundation providing a home for all of Paris' stray cats. The grand opening thereof, to which most of the major characters come, features Scat Cat's band, who perform a reprise of Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat.Esther Hoffman, an aspiring female singer/songwriter meets John Norman Howard, a famous, successful and self-destructive male singer/songwriter, whom, after a series of coincidental meetings, she finally start dating. Believing in her talent, John gives her a helping hand and her career begins to eclipse his. Writer and director Frank Pierson, in his New West magazine article "My Battles With Barbra and Jon" summarized it this way: "An actress is a little more than a woman, an actor a little less than a man  ... The woman in our story is ambitious to become a star, but it is not necessary: it can make her happier and richer, but she could give it all away and not be a better or worse person. With stardom she is only a little more than a woman. For the man, his career is his defense against a self-destructive part of himself that has led him into outrageous bursts of drunkenness, drugs, love affairs, fights and adventures that have made him a legend. His career is also what gives him his sense of who he is. Without it, he is lost and confused; his demons eat him alive. That's why he is a little less than a man. And it is not that her success galls him, or that she wins over him; the tragedy is that all her love is not enough to keep alive a man who has lost what he measures his manhood with."{{Cite quote}} And so the conclusion is measured by the theme. He takes his life in the mistaken belief that he will then not drag her down with him.This science fiction film tells the story of Melodye Amerson , a young teacher who goes to a remote area to work with a group of individuals who have isolated themselves from civilization and maintained an independent community, vaguely similar to the Amish or a religious commune. Melodye is unnerved by the secretive behavior of her students, and the fact that all fun, games and activities she proposes are forbidden to them. Valancy , an elder in the community, advises Melodye to stay, because she senses that things are about to change in the valley, and Melodye herself is a part of that change. Melodye soon discovers that the secluded and "backwards" residents are actually aliens with mild paranormal powers. A natural disaster destroyed their planet, and they are hoping to establish a life on Earth. Landing in the late 1800s, initially they shared their secret with local residents, but found themselves condemned as witches. Many were killed, and the survivors forbade their children ever to use their abilities, even with extreme discretion. Young adults like Valancy  have been pushing for an end to these restrictions.The action opens in a woman's prison, located on an island in the South Seas. Lee Daniels  is the girlfriend of the island's biggest pimp and drug dealer, and she just ran off with $40,000.00USD of his money. Karen Brent  is a leading member of the local anarchist group. Lee and Karen are two of the newest inmates at an all-woman's penitentiary. It's not too long before the warden ships the pair off to another facility - where they are stopped in route by a group of Karen's fellow revolutionaries who are keen to free her. During the big gun battle, things go horribly wrong - the federals find reinforcements, the revolutionaries run, and Lee and Karen flee chained together. So begins their flight across the island. Each girl wants to go different directions - with Karen wanting to overthrow the government and Lee wanting to leave the island with her money - but they can't unlock their chains. Eventually, the two put aside their differences long enough to save their skins from the ogreish and murderous whoremaster. Meanwhile, hunting the pair is the lecherous Ruben  a displaced cowboy.Libby Meredith  and her husband, Roger  move from New York to a small house in backwoods Tennessee. Their neighbor, Will Cade , is very helpful to them and to Libby especially. While her intellectual husband is busy writing a book and paying her little attention, she comes to like the country life and finds herself attracted to Will's rural sensibilities. Though he is married to Ann , Will and Libby start up a middle-aged affair. Libby's daughter, Ellen , arrives asking for help raising her son while she attends Harvard. Soon enough, Will's son  finds out about the affair and assaults Libby, leading to drastic consequences for all.Philip Broadhurst, a wealthy businessman, dies and leaves his entire estate to his daughter Lucy, on condition that within six months of his death she marries Mathurin, the son of his best friend the Marquis Pierre de l'Esperance, and that they must be married by Cardinal Joseph do Balo, the brother of Pierre's uncle, the crippled Duc Rammendelo de Balo, who shares their crumbling farmhouse with Pierre's daughter Clarisse, and their servant Ifany, whom we see copulating with Clarisse at every opportunity. The problem is that Mathurin, who manages the family horse-breeding business, is dim-witted and deformed, and as a result has never been baptised. Pierre summons the local choirboy-loving priest to the house for the baptism, but Pierre, by promising the priest repairs to his church and a new bell, performs the ritual himself so that the priest doesn't find out the truth about Mathurin. Lucy and her aunt, Virginia, are driven by their chauffeur towards the farm but their way is blocked by a fallen tree. They find a back route to the house but end up at the stables where they see two horses copulating. Lucy eagerly takes some photographs, much to the disgust of her aunt. They eventually arrive at a back door to the house, where Lucy asks Rammaendelo about ghostly rumours she has heard about the family. Rammaendelo, who is not in favour of the marriage because he is dependent on Mathurin to look after him, shows her a book that describes the beautiful Romilda's fight with a beast in the local forest 200 years ago. Looking around the house, Lucy comes across several drawings depicting bestiality, and becomes sexually excited at the thought of her impending marriage, even though she has never met Mathurin. Pierre blackmails Rammaendelo into persuading his brother to perform the marriage by telling him that he has proof that Rammaendelo poisoned his wife. However, Rammaendelo is unable to get through to the Cardinal on the telephone. Pierre sends a telegram instead, assuring him that Mathurin has been baptised and urging him to attend that very evening. Everyone assembles for dinner, and Mathurin's uncouth manners soon become apparent. Lucy and her aunt try to leave, but are persuaded to stay. Everyone having drunk too much wine, most of the assembly fall asleep while waiting up for the Cardinal. Lucy retires to her room, undresses, puts on her thin wedding dress, and dreams that she is Romilda, playing a harpsichord. Seeing a lamb straying into the forest, she chases after it to find that it has been torn apart by a black hairy beast. Meanwhile, Pierre overhears Rammaendelo on the telephone to the Cardinal trying to dissuade him from performing the marriage. Angrily interrupting the conversation, Pierre cuts Rammaendelo's throat with a razor and tears the phone out of the wall. In the continuing comic dream sequence, the beast chases Lucy through the forest. She loses most of her clothing in the process and ends up hanging by her arms from a branch, and the beast licks her and masturbates. Lucy wakes in a sweat. Was it just a dream? She tiptoes to Mathurin's room but he is asleep, fully clothed, on his bed. Lucy returns to her room, masturbates, and dreams that the beast is copulating with her. She finds she enjoys it. She wakes again and is convinced that Mathurin must have visited her. She visits his room again but he is still sleeping soundly. Lucy eagerly returns to her dream. The beast continues to masturbate and Lucy rubs his ejaculate all over herself. Eventually the beast dies of exhaustion. Lucy wakes and walks into Mathurin's room to find him dead on the floor. She runs naked through the house screaming, and everyone runs to her aid. Virginia examines Mathurin's body and discovers that a plaster cast on his arm is concealing a claw for a hand. Pulling his clothes off reveals that he is covered in thick black hair and has a tail. They run out of the house in terror just as the Cardinal arrives to find out what is going on. Virginia comforts the terrified Lucy as they speed away in the car, and Lucy dreams that she is naked in the forest again, burying the beast.Bildstoerung » LA BÊTE - Die BestieThe film tells the story of a female petty criminal, played by Reiko Ike, who becomes involved in international intrigue while searching for the sister of a man she saw murdered in a gambling den, as well as the gangsters responsible for murdering her father during her childhood.New York short story writer Jennifer Hills rents an isolated cottage by a lake in the countryside to write her first novel. The arrival in town of the attractive and independent young woman attracts the attention of Johnny, the gas station manager, and Stanley and Andy, two unemployed youths who hang around the gas station. Jennifer receives a grocery delivery from Matthew, who is mildly mentally challenged, and befriends him. Matthew is friends with the other three men and reports back to them about the beautiful woman he met, claiming he saw her breasts. Stanley and Andy start cruising by the cottage in their speedboat and prowl around the house at night. One day, while Jennifer is relaxing in her canoe, they surprise her in their speedboat and tow her to shore. As she tries to escape, she is met by Johnny, while Matthew hides in bushes nearby. She realizes they planned her abduction so Matthew can lose his virginity. Jennifer fights but is chased by the men through the forest. Matthew refuses to have sex with her, so Johnny rapes her. They allow her to escape but track her down shortly afterward. Andy brutally rapes her; and after she crawls back to her house, they attack her again. Matthew finally rapes her after drinking alcohol, but he says that he can not reach orgasm with the other men watching. The other men ridicule her book and rip up the manuscript, and Stanley sexually assaults her. She passes out, but after the men leave, Johnny realizes she is a witness to their crimes and orders Matthew to stab her to death. Matthew cannot bring himself to do this, so he dabs the knife in her blood and returns to the other men claiming he has killed her. In the following days, a traumatized Jennifer pieces both herself and her manuscript back together. She goes to church and asks for forgiveness for what she plans to do. The men learn Jennifer has survived and beat Matthew up for deceiving them. Jennifer calls in a grocery order, knowing Matthew will deliver it. He takes the groceries, and a knife. At the cabin Jennifer entices him to have sex with her under a tree. As he becomes oblivious to his surroundings, she strings a noose around his neck and hangs him, then cuts the rope and drops the body in the river. Jennifer seductively collects Johnny from the gas station in her car. She stops halfway to her house and turns a gun on him and orders him to remove all his clothing. Johnny insists the rapes were her fault because she enticed the men by parading around in revealing clothing. She pretends to believe this, lowers her gun, and invites him back to her cottage for a hot bath, where she manually stimulates him. When Johnny says that Matthew has been reported missing, Jennifer states that she killed Matthew, and as he nears orgasm, Jennifer takes the knife Matthew brought with him from its hiding place under the bathmat and severs Johnny's genitals, letting him bleed to death. She later dumps the body in the basement and burns his clothes in the fireplace. Stanley and Andy learn that Johnny is missing and take their boat to Jennifer's cabin. Andy goes ashore with an axe. Jennifer swims out to the boat and climbs aboard before Stanley realizes what she is doing and pushes him overboard. Andy tries to attack her when she speeds past him in the boat, but she escapes with the axe. Andy swims out to rescue Stanley, but Jennifer plunges the axe into Andy's back and backs the boat up to Stanley, who grabs hold of the motor to climb aboard, begging Jennifer not to kill him. She repeats his own words he used against Jennifer while assaulting her: "Suck it, bitch!", starts the engine, disemboweling him, and speeds away in the boat.Casey learns that his 12 year old son Sean has leukaemia and will die in a few months. Casey leaves his job to devote himself to making his son happy, seeing to grant three wishes of Sean: to own a dog, be reunited with his mother, and meet the Queen.David and Jason are estranged siblings, the former a depressive late-night radio talk-show host, the latter an extroverted con man. When Jason drags his younger brother and his  bitter aging beauty-queen squeeze, Sally, to a dreary Atlantic City and into a real-estate scam, events spiral toward tragedy. The skeptical David has no faith in Jason's scam. Jason chides David for wallowing in his dark, lonely depressed life. Sally becomes disgruntled and shoots Jason. David escorts his brother's corpse home to Philadelphia by train.Joanna Eberhart  is a young wife who moves with her husband Walter  and two children from New York City to the idyllic Connecticut suburb of Stepford. Loneliness quickly sets in as Joanna, a mildly rebellious aspiring photographer, finds the women in town all look great and are obsessed with housework, but have few intellectual interests. The men all belong to the clubbish Stepford Men's Association, which Walter joins to Joanna's dismay. Neighbor Carol Van Sant's  sexually submissive behavior to her husband Ted, and her odd, repetitive behavior after a car accident also strike Joanna as unusual.  Things start to look up when she makes friends with another newcomer to town, sloppy, irrepressible Bobbie Markowe . Along with glossy trophy wife Charmaine Wimperis , they organize a Women's Lib consciousness raising session, but the meeting is a failure when the other wives hijack the meeting with cleaning concerns. Joanna is also unimpressed by the boorish Men's Club members, including intimidating president Dale "Diz" Coba ([[Patrick O'Neal ; stealthily, they collect information on Joanna including her picture, her voice, and other personal details. When Charmaine turns overnight from a languid, self-absorbed tennis fan into an industrious, devoted wife, Joanna and Bobbie start investigating, with ever-increasing concern, the reason behind the submissive and bland behavior of the other wives, especially when they learn they were once quite supportive of liberal social policies. Spooked, Bobbie and Joanna start house hunting in other towns, and later, Joanna wins a prestigious contract with a photo gallery with some photographs of their respective children. When she excitedly tells Bobbie her good news, Joanna is shocked to find her freewheeling and liberal friend has abruptly changed into another clean, conservative housewife, with no intention of moving from town. Joanna panics and, at Walter's insistence, visits a psychiatrist to whom she voices her belief that all the men in the town are in a conspiracy of somehow changing the women. The psychiatrist recommends she leave town until she feels safe, but when Joanna returns home, the children are missing. The marriage devolves into domestic violence when Joanna and Walter get into a physical scuffle. In an attempt to find her children, she hypothesizes Bobbie may be caring for them. Joanna, still mystified by Bobbie's behavior, is desperate to prove her humanity but intuitively stabs Bobbie with a kitchen knife. But Bobbie doesn't bleed or suffer, instead going into a loop of odd mechanical behavior, thus revealing she is a robot. Despite feeling she may be the next victim, Joanna sneaks into the mansion which houses the Men's Association to find her children. There, she finds the mastermind of the whole operation, Dale "Diz" Coba, and eventually her own robot-duplicate. Joanna is shocked into paralysis when she witnesses its soulless, black, empty eyes. The Joanna-duplicate brandishes a cord; it is implied that she strangles the real Joanna to death. In the final scene, the duplicate is seen placidly purchasing groceries at the local supermarket, along with the other "wives" all wearing similar long dresses, large hats and saying little more than hello to each other. The final shot focuses on Joanna's now-finished eyes. During the closing credits still pics show a very cheerful Walter along with his now conservatively-dressed children in the back of the station wagon, picking up his "Stepford wife" from the supermarket.* Winnie the Pooh and the Honey Tree * Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day * Winnie the Pooh and Tigger TooDr. Peter Carey  is a pathologist who moves to Boston, where he starts working in a hospital. He soon meets Georgia Hightower , with whom he falls in love. Evelyn Randall, daughter of the hospital's Chief Doctor, becomes pregnant and is brought to the emergency department after an illegal abortion. She dies there, and Dr. David Tao , a brilliant surgeon and friend of Carey, is arrested and accused of being responsible for the illegal abortion. Carey does not believe his friend to be guilty and starts investigating on his own, despite strong opposition by the police and the doctors around the hospital's chief.Edith Alice "Breezy" Breezerman , a teenage woman, wakes up in a stranger's bed, gets dressed, fails to brush her teeth for lack of tooth paste and walks out the door with her guitar. She catches a ride to the valley with another stranger. When he starts to drive in the wrong direction and talks about giving his last hitchiker something to yell about, she escapes the car when it stops for another car backing up in front of him. Frank Harmon  is introduced saying goodbye to a girl he met last night and never wants to see again. As he gets into his car to drive to work, Breezy jumps into his car asking for a ride to the valley. Breezy talks about her time with the stranger in bed last night and in the car this morning. When he stops and says he's going to Hollywood and not the valley, she says that's fine by me. She then tells him to stop when she sees a stray dog laying on the side of the road. When Frank says the dog is beyond help, she runs away crying. He carries the dog back to his car when it starts to move, and sees Breezy's guitar in his car. He makes it to his job as a realtor and makes a call to Betty , a woman he was going to have lunch with. They stop to look at a house which she says she would be happy in. Then she tells him that she is getting married to another man and would be interested in buying the house. When they sit down for lunch, he tells her he is sad to lose. She said he is sad losing. He makes it back home with Breezy waiting for him. She said she was there for the guitar. He seems annoyed by her presence, but she is persistant about keeping a conversation going. She then asks for some food. He says Breezy should get a job, but admits his ex-wife lives off his alimony check without working. She then asks to use his shower, starts to undress in front of him, but he leaves her to take her shower alone. She comes out to talk him wearing only a towel. He says she should try her games on someone else. She leaves with her guitar, saying I've never woke in the morning with someone I was sorry I was there, but I bet you have. Frank spends the next day at work thinking about Breezy. He then has dinner with Betty and her new fiancee, but tries to discourage him buying the house he and Betty looked at before. Betty asks to leave in frustration. Breezy shows up at his home in the middle of the night, claiming to be his neice. He takes her in, gives her an apple to eat, then relents to take her to see the ocean for the first time. He starts to feel an attraction toward her. He carries her asleep back to his house, removing only her boots to sleep. She admits that she loves him, but he asks if she would like to be loved back. She says she thought she was. Frank is sad that Breezy is gone in the morning. Breezy spends time with friends at a coffee shop while Frank plays golf with his friend Bob. Bob tells him his wife doesn't excite him anymore, but he is afraid to be alone. Frank drives home and Breezy is waiting for him. He says he must bring papers over for Betty and her new husband's new home before they leave on their honeymoon. He admits he was sad she left last night without saying goodbye and wouldn't mind if she waited for him at his home to come back. He says 10:00, but comes back much later after saying goodbye to Betty. Breezy is still waiting for him and asks him to make love to her. Frank tells Breezy they are spending the day together and it's a surprise what they are doing. Breezy says her parents died when she was young in Pennsylvania, and she came to California alone to start a new life. Frank takes her to see the dog from the side of the road who has made a full recovery. Breezy admits she will love Frank until the day she dies. Frank buys her new clothes, plays with the dog, always being reminded how much older he is then Breezy. When they go for dinner, they run into his ex-wife who makes him glad she's out of his life. Frank admits he has feelings for her when they spend the day at the ocean. Frank runs into he friend Bob and his wife at the movies. He feels self consious about being with such a young woman around his friend. Frank feels good about his life, but Bob makes him feel bad again about dating such a young woman when they see each other again at the gym. Frank watches Breezy with her young friends and feels distant from her. He starts to pull away from her when she makes dinner for them. The relationship breaks when he says he can't cope with the pressure of their large age difference. Breezy says he should keep the dog because she can't afford to take care of it, but don't teach the dog to roll over and play dead, alluding to her image of Frank's own life. After Frank starts to feel his lonliness, and learns Betty was in a car accident that killed her new husband, he seeks out Breezy again. He says that the relationship will only last a year, but Breezy reminds him a year is a long time and life is meant to be lived.Dina Hunter , wealthy and unstable, takes a Mexican holiday with her husband Jerry  in order for her to recover from a traffic accident. An artist named Paul Carter  becomes intrigued in Dina and wants to paint her portrait. Dina's interest in him leads her to uncover clues that he is more than just an artist — she discovers that he may possibly be a jewel thief and murderer. She tries to convince her husband and the local authorities but no one will believe her story.The film deals with the sex life of a young New York woman, Kitty , and her boyfriend Stud . Stud is brutal and oafish but Kitty is enamoured with his sexual performances. They sometimes engage into light sadomasochism, with Stud belt-whipping Kitty. Stud later posts a sign on a bulletin board inviting people to a party. Several people show up at Kitty and Stud's apartment and they all engage into group sex, with Stud servicing all the women.While working as a correspondent at the offices of the Northern Star newspaper, Kipling  is approached by a ragged, seemingly crazed derelict, who reveals himself to be his old acquaintance Peachy Carnehan . Peachy tells Kipling the story of how he and his comrade-in-arms Danny Dravot  travelled to remote Kafiristan , became gods, and ultimately lost everything. A few years earlier, the pair of rogues had met Kipling at his office. After signing a contract pledging mutual loyalty and forswearing drink and women until they achieved their grandiose aims, Peachy and Danny set off on an epic overland journey north beyond the Khyber Pass, "travelling by night and avoiding villages", fighting off bandits, blizzards, and avalanches, into the unknown land of Kafiristan . They chance upon a Gurkha soldier who goes by the name Billy Fish , the sole survivor of a mapping expedition several years earlier. Billy speaks English as well as the local tongue, and it is he, acting as translator and interpreter of the customs and manners, who smooths the path of Peachy and Danny as they begin their rise, first offering their services as military advisors, trainers, and war leaders to the chief of the much-raided village of Er-Heb. Peachy and Danny muster a force to attack the villagers' most-hated enemy, the Bashkai. In their first battle, the natives decide that Danny must be a god when he is unharmed after being struck in the chest by an arrow. In fact, the arrow was stopped by a bandolier hidden beneath his clothing. As victory follows victory, the defeated are recruited to join the swelling army. Finally, no one is left to stand in their way, and they are summoned to the holy city of Sikandergul, where the chief high priest, Kafu Selim, sets up a re-enactment of the arrow incident, in order to determine whether Danny is a man or a god by seeing whether or not he bleeds. When Danny flinches, the monks grab him and rip open his shirt, only to be stopped however, by Danny's Masonic Jewel . By coincidence, the symbol on the Jewel matches a hidden symbol, known only to the highest holy man, of "Sikander" , who had passed through the country thousands of years before and promised to return. The holy men are convinced Danny is the son of Sikander. They hail him as king and lead the two men down to storerooms heaped with treasure that belonged to Sikander, which now belongs to Danny. As the months pass, Peachy is anxious to leave with the treasure before winter closes the passes . Danny is against it, however, and develops delusions of grandeur. First, he suggests that Peachy bow to him like the others. Then he begins making plans to turn the land into a modern country, to the extent that he envisages eventually meeting Queen Victoria "as an equal". Disgusted, Peachy decides to take as much booty as he can carry on a small mule train, with his old friend's blessing. Meanwhile, Danny decides to take a wife after seeing the beautiful Roxanne , despite Peachy's strong warnings. Roxanne, having a superstitious fear that she will be struck dead if she consorts with a god, tries frantically to escape, biting Danny during the wedding ceremony. The bite draws blood, and when everyone sees it, they realise Danny is human after all. The angry natives pursue him and Peachy. Billy tries to buy time by courageously charging the mob singlehandedly with a kukri, but the pair are soon captured. Danny is forced to walk to the middle of a rope bridge over a deep gorge; he apologises to Peachy before the ropes are cut. Peachy is crucified between two pine trees, but is cut down the next day when he survives the ordeal. Eventually, he makes his way back to India, but his mind has become unhinged by his sufferings. As Peachy finishes his story, he presents Kipling with Danny's head, still wearing its crown, thereby proving the tale is true.David Greene  is a basketball fanatic living in Brooklyn, NY, who alternates his time between playing in neighborhood pick-up games and managing a delicatessen. He dreams of making his living coaching basketball  and has sent numerous letters to colleges in the hope of fulfilling that dream—much to the chagrin of his long-suffering wife Jan , who wants only to buy a home and start a family. Just when David thinks his dream will forever elude him, he's offered a dubious job coaching the men's basketball team at Cadwallader University, a fictional podunk college in Nevada. The job pays peanuts , but David is promised a lucrative contract if he can lead Cadwallader to victory over Nevada State . David accepts the job but is unable to convince his wife to join him in his cross-country quest, and David's marriage is therefore threatened as he pursues his dream. David begins building his team with his friend Hustler , a talented baller and pool ace whose own fortunes turn sour when his "pigeons" realize they've been sharked. David and Hustler recruit Preacher ( a pre-Hill Street Blues [[Michael Warren , who also has good reason to "get out of Dodge."  Next, David and Hustler ferret out D.C. , an acquaintance of Hustler's, whom David, with his encyclopedic basketball mind, recognizes as a former high school star who has traded his chance at basketball glory to run numbers. Finally, David and Hustler visit Swish, a finesse player with the sweetest jumper in town. Problem is, Swish is a girl. David doesn't see the problem, and convinces the androgynous Swish  to pose as a male in order to play on the team. David and his newly formed quartet head West and immediately set about finding a suitable fifth man among the shallow talent pool of Cadwallader athletes. David settles on Sam Newton "Bull"  who makes up in lane-clearing muscle what he lacks in basketball skills. Despite the challenges presented from the culture between the "ethnic" Easterners and the "white bread" Westerners, David develops Cadwallader into a contender. The team ultimately catches the eye of Bo Winnegar , head coach of the elite team David must beat in order to make his coaching job a viable proposition. David must find a way to get Winnegar to agree to a game, which, as team manager Howard  puts it, will be "like getting the Ohio State Buckeyes to play football with Radcliffe." Nevertheless, after the resourceful coach learns that Bo enjoys billiards, he enlists Hustler in setting up an all-too-transparent sting that forces Bo to agree to the game. As the impossible match-up becomes a reality, David's team faces even bigger challenges. A hitman has tailed Preacher to Nevada, leaving Preacher to fear for his life as he takes the court. And just prior to tipoff, David makes a deal with a police officer to allow D.C. to play in the big game before answering to the law for his illegal activities. During the game, David's wife and mother show up to share in David's realization of his lifelong dream.A family gathers to be with its dying father. The reunion brings old rivalries to the surface. Mr Hu is dying, so calls his family to his bedside. After his death, his three sons divide Mr Hu's belongings, leaving their mother and sister with nothing. Between them, the sister and mother come up with a plan to get revenge. The sister starts a rumour that her mother is actually very rich. On hearing the rumour, the three sons quickly return home and vie for their mother's favor in the hope of getting the money from her. Spring Lady is tiring of her husband, Ma, and has an eye on Little Tang, a rickshaw boy. Little Tang is in love with Lin-tze, but as Lin-tze is happily married to Chang Hsun, his attentions are soon swayed by Spring Lady. Although Ma discovers the affair, he is too busy to care.The film follows the story of an American girl, Sarah Brown, who is orphaned when her parents are killed in a car crash. She is sent to England to live with her aunt Velvet Brown and Uncle John. When Velvet was a similar age to Sarah, she and her horse, The Pie, entered the legendary Grand National horse race and won; however, she was instantly disqualified due to falling from the horse after the race before reaching the enclosure. The Pie is ultimately put out to stud upon his retirement. He sires his last foal after Sarah's arrival in England. Sarah and Velvet are present for the birth of this foal and Sarah eventually decides that she'd like to purchase him. She later finds out that her Aunt Velvet has bought him for her. Sarah aptly names him "Arizona Pie" . She shows enough talent to be selected for the British Olympic team, where she is the junior, but she does well under the stern guidance of Captain Johnson. Sarah lives up to her dream and enters the Olympic Three Day Event helping Great Britain win the team competition. She falls in love with an American competitor and moves back to America with him. At the conclusion of the film she gives her Olympic gold medal to her Aunt Velvet. Sarah introduces her fiance by saying: "Scott, I want you to meet my parents".Paula McFadden  learns she has been dumped by her married boyfriend Tony DeForrest and that he has sublet the Manhattan apartment she lives in with her ten-year-old daughter Lucy . Elliot Garfield , a neurotic but sweet aspiring actor from Chicago, shows up shortly thereafter in the middle of the night, expecting to live there, as he now rents the apartment. Though Paula is demanding, and makes clear from the start that she doesn't like Elliot, he allows her and Lucy to stay. Paula struggles to get back into shape to try to resume her career as a dancer. Meanwhile, Elliot has his own problems. He has landed the title role in an off-off-Broadway production of Richard III, but the director, Mark , wants him to play the character as an exaggerated stereotype of a homosexual, in Mark's words, "the queen who wanted to be king." Reluctantly, Elliot agrees to play the role, despite full knowledge that it may mean the end of his career as an actor. Many theater critics from television stations and newspapers in New York City attend opening night, and they all savage the production, especially Elliot's performance. The play quickly closes, much to his relief. Despite their frequent clashes, Paula and Elliot fall in love and sleep together. Lucy, however, begins to dislike Elliot, seeing the affair as a repeat of what happened with Tony, who had also slept with Paula, but then left her. Soon after, Elliot is offered a fantastic opportunity for a role in a movie that he cannot turn down. The only catch is that the job is in Seattle and Elliot will be gone for four weeks. Paula is informed of this and is scared that Elliot is leaving her, never to return, like all the other men in her life. Desperate to make her believe him that he will return, at the last minute, Elliot invites Paula to go with him while he is filming the picture and suggests Lucy stay with a friend until they return. Paula declines, but is happy because she knows Elliot's invitation is evidence that he loves her and will come back. As he leaves for the trip, Paula realizes that he left his prized guitar behind purposely, signaling that he indeed will return, and that he really does love her.Murder, homosexuality, nymphomania, and sadism are among the themes of this black comedy focusing on a brother and sister who become involved with a young, sexy, amoral drifter with a mysterious past. Kath is a lonely middle-aged woman living in the London suburbs with her ageing father Kemp, referred to as Da Da or the Da Da. When she meets the attractive Sloane sunbathing on a tombstone in the cemetery near her home, she invites him to become a lodger. Soon after he accepts her offer, Kath seduces him. Her closeted brother Ed makes him the chauffeur  of his pink 1959 Pontiac Parisienne convertible. Kemp, recognizing Sloane as the man who killed his boss years before, stabs him in the leg with a gardening tool. Sloane takes delight in playing brother against sister and tormenting the elderly man. He gets Kath pregnant and a jealous Ed warns him to stay away from her. When Sloane murders Kemp to protect his secret, they blackmail him by threatening to report him to the police unless he agrees to participate in a ménage à trois in which he becomes not only a sexual partner but their prisoner as well.Susan Wilcox  is a young woman who was raped by an unknown man when she was a 13-year-old. Traumatized by the experience, she suffered a mental breakdown, did not speak a word for two years, and was entered in a Swiss sanatorium. Upon leaving the psychiatric institution for the first time, she returns to her old home where her mother Miriam  is now in an unstable marriage with Harold Jennings , an alcoholic. Susan returns to the woods where she was raped, and is followed there by someone. She suspects that this person is Harold, but Miriam tells her that Harold left her the previous night. One night Susan sees a shadow by her window, then finds a dead man in her bathtub. She faints, regaining consciousness later in the presence of Dr. Michael Lomas . There is no trace of a body, and it seems clear to Susan that someone is trying to drive her insane. Miriam believes that Susan is hallucinating, and begins to doubt the wisdom of Susan's release from the hospital. On a different night, Susan is chased out of the mansion by someone she thinks is Harold, and outside finds a dead body in the car. She turns to John  - an old family friend and the gardener - for help, only to find the car is missing when she returns. After telling Dr. Lomas about her experiences, he concludes that her subconscious is rejecting Harold. Regardless, Susan begins to believe that Harold was the one who raped her. The same day that Harold returns to the mansion, someone from the woods calls out to Susan. She goes into the woods and finds the same dead man, who grabs her leg. She flees and hides in the cabin where she was raped. Harold arrives shortly afterward; he is later found dead, apparently shot by Susan. Miriam is told by the authorities that Susan will be returned to the sanatorium in Switzerland. It is then revealed that Miriam has been conspiring with John to subvert Susan's recovery, in order to disinherit her from her father's will. Miriam admits her lifelong jealousy of Susan, because Susan's father gave her more attention than he gave Miriam. It was John who raped Susan when she was 13. A stalker targets Miriam, appearing to be Harold. She assumes that John is terrorizing her, and she fires him. The stalking continues unabated. One rainy night, Miriam catches sight of the stalker, who does appear to be Harold. John arrives shortly afterward, and Miriam shoots him dead. She tries to leave the mansion, only to find Harold in the doorway. Driven to hysteria, she screams that she "made Susan kill" him. In the wake of this confession, the "stalking" is revealed as a counter-conspiracy masterminded by Dr. Lomas. Harold is alive, his "shooting" a ruse to lure Miriam into a confession. Miriam coldly allows herself to be arrested.Divorced San Francisco contractor Doug Salter is looking forward to a summer visit from his fourteen-year-old son Nick, who lives in Los Angeles with his mother Janet. What the boy doesn't know is that his father is gay and committed to Gary McClain, his life partner of several years, who opts to move out temporarily in order to keep Nick's possible suspicions at bay. When he finds evidence of his father's secret life, the teen — filled with shame and disgust — runs away. Once reunited with his son, Doug attempts to explain his sexual orientation to him, with decidedly mixed results.Travis Bickle , an honorably discharged U.S. Marine, is a lonely and depressed man living in Manhattan, New York. He becomes a taxi driver in order to cope with chronic insomnia, driving passengers every night around the boroughs of New York City. He also spends time in seedy porn theaters and keeps a diary. Travis becomes infatuated with Betsy , a campaign volunteer for Senator Charles Palantine ([[Leonard Harris , who is running for President. After watching her through her office window, interacting with fellow worker Tom , Travis enters to volunteer as a pretext to talk to her and takes her out for coffee. On a later date he takes her to see a sex film, which offends her, so she goes home alone. His attempts at reconciliation by sending flowers are rebuffed so he berates her at the campaign office, before being kicked out by Tom. Travis confides in fellow taxi driver Wizard  about his thoughts, which are beginning to turn violent, but Wizard assures him that he will be fine. Disgusted by the street crime and prostitution that he witnesses through the city, Travis finds a focus for his frustration and begins a program of intense physical training. He buys guns from dealer Easy Andy  and constructs a sleeve gun to attach on his arm with which he practices drawing his weapons. One night, Travis enters a convenience store moments before a man attempts to rob it and shoots the robber. The shop owner  takes responsibility and Travis leaves. On another night, 12-year-old child prostitute Iris  enters Travis's cab, attempting to escape her pimp Matthew "Sport" . Sport drags Iris from the cab and throws Travis a crumpled twenty-dollar bill, which continually reminds him of her. Travis arranges to meet Iris and attempts to persuade her to quit prostitution. They meet again the next day for breakfast and Travis becomes obsessed with helping her return to her parents' home, sending her money to do so and a letter in which he states he will soon be dead. After shaving his head into a mohawk, Travis attends a public rally where he attempts to assassinate Senator Palantine, but Secret Service agents notice him and he flees. He returns to his apartment and then drives to the East Village, where he confronts Sport. Travis shoots him, then walks into Iris’ brothel and shoots off the bouncer's fingers. After Sport shoots Travis in the neck, wounding him, Travis shoots him dead. Another thug appears and shoots Travis in the arm, but Travis reveals his sleeve gun and kills the thug. The bouncer continues to harass Travis, causing Travis to shoot him in the head and kill him. As a horrified Iris cries, Travis attempts suicide but, out of ammunition, resigns himself to a sofa until police arrive. When they do, he places his index finger against his temple gesturing the act of shooting himself. Recuperating, Travis receives a letter from Iris's parents who thank him for saving her and the media hail him as a hero. Travis then returns to his job and encounters Betsy as a fare. She discusses his newly found fame, but he denies being a hero and drops her off for free. He glances anxiously at an object in his rear view mirror as he drives away.Some time after the drowning of their young daughter, Christine , in a tragic accident at their English country home, John Baxter  and his wife, Laura , are staying in Venice where John has been contracted by a bishop  to restore an ancient church. Laura encounters two elderly sisters at a restaurant where she and John are dining, one of whom is blind and claims to be psychic and in contact with the Baxters' deceased daughter. The blind sister, Heather , tells Laura she can see Christine and describes the attire she was wearing at the time of the accident, and that Christine is happy. Shaken, Laura returns to her table, where she faints. Laura is taken to hospital, where she later tells John what the sisters told her. John is sceptical but pleasantly surprised by the positive change in Laura's demeanour. Later in the evening after returning from the hospital, John and Laura engage in passionate sexual intercourse. Afterwards, they go out to dinner where they get lost and briefly become separated. John catches a glimpse of what looks like a small child  wearing a red coat similar to the one Christine was wearing when she died. The next day, Laura meets with the sisters, who hold a séance to try to contact Christine. She returns to the hotel and tells John that Christine has said he is in danger and must leave Venice. John loses his temper with Laura, but that night they receive a telephone call informing them that their son  has been injured in an accident. Laura departs for England, while John stays on to complete the restoration. Under the assumption that Laura is in England, John is shocked when later that day he spots her on a barge that is part of a funeral cortege, accompanied by the two sisters. Concerned about his wife's mental state and with reports of a serial killer at large in Venice, he reports Laura's disappearance to the police. The inspector  investigating the killings, is suspicious of John and has him followed. After conducting a futile search for Laura and the sisters—in which he again sees the childlike figure in the red coat—John contacts his son's boarding school to enquire about his condition, only to discover Laura is already at the school. After speaking to her to confirm she really is in England, a bewildered John returns to the police station to inform the police he has found his wife. In the meantime the police have found the sisters and brought them in for questioning, so an apologetic John offers to escort Heather back to her hotel to rejoin her sister, Wendy . Back at the hotel, Heather goes into a trance as John is leaving. On his way out, John catches another glimpse of the mysterious figure in red, and this time pursues it. Coming out of her trance, Heather beseeches her sister to go after John, sensing that something terrible is about to happen to him, but Wendy is unable to catch up with him. Meanwhile, John has followed the elusive figure to a deserted palazzo, and having cornered it, realises too late that the strange sightings he has been experiencing were premonitions of his own death.The story takes place during a new ice age. The camera tracks a blank, frozen, seemingly deserted tundra- until two blurry distant figures can just be made out. They are the seal hunter Essex  and his pregnant companion, Vivia , the daughter of one of Essex's late hunting partners. They are travelling North, where Essex hopes to reunite with his brother, Francha . Essex and Vivia eventually find Francha's apartment, but the reunion is short-lived. While Essex is out buying firewood, a gambler named Redstone  throws a bomb into Francha's apartment, killing everyone inside, including Vivia. Essex sees Redstone fleeing the scene and chases him to the sector's "Information Room"; Essex witnesses the murder of Redstone by a Latin gambler named St. Christopher . When St. Christopher leaves, Essex searches Redstone's pockets and finds a piece of paper with a list of names: Francha, Redstone, Goldstar, Deuca, St. Christopher, and Ambrosia. Puzzled by the mystery, Essex discovers that Redstone had previously checked into the Hotel Electra, a gambling resort in another sector. He visits the hotel and assumes Redstone's identity. Immediately after checking in, Essex is given an unexpected welcome by Grigor , who is the dealer in the casino. Insisting that he means no harm, Grigor invites Essex  to the casino, where gamblers are now heavily involved in a "Quintet" tournament . While there he meets Ambrosia , who always plays the "sixth man" in the game. Essex is unaware that the current Quintet tournament is a fight for the survival of the fittest. Those who are "killed" in game are executed in real life. Grigor and St. Christopher are aware that Essex is not the real Redstone, so they ignore him and focus on the other players. Goldstar  is the first killed, followed by Deuca , until the only two players left are St. Christopher and Ambrosia. Ambrosia, however, insists that Essex be counted as a player in the game since he has assumed Redstone's identity. Grigor agrees and informs St. Christopher that he has to eliminate Essex before he can face off against Ambrosia. Essex and St. Christopher have a showdown outside the city, where St. Christopher is killed in an avalanche. Essex returns to Francha's apartment and finds the same list that Redstone had. Ambrosia follows Essex to the apartment. Essex slits her throat just before she is about to stab him with a hidden knife. Returning to the Hotel Electra to cremate Ambrosia's body, Essex confronts Grigor to demand his "prize", since he was the winner of Quintet. But Grigor reveals that the only prize is the thrill of the game itself. Although Grigor insists he stays and participate in future tournaments, a disgusted Essex condemns Quintet and leaves the hotel for good. The film ends with Essex taking a long walk out into the barren Northern distance.The film opens with a scene of a burial in a large suburban cemetery, with mourners, many of them young people, surrounding a casket while a minister prays. An older couple dressed in black is closest to the casket, suggesting that they are the deceased's parents. The grief-stricken father weeps openly as he is comforted by his wife. The story then cuts from the cemetery and to a car swerving erratically on a street, focusing on a young man, 17-year-old Richie Werner , who is doing drugs in the car with his three friends. The driver, Brick, is then pulled over for his erratic driving. The police officer tells Brick he is willing to let him off the hook as a favor...and that he expects favors in return for those he does favors for. Brick agrees. This is the beginning of a series of episodes that bring Richie into conflict with his father, George , a stern man who loves his son, but has trouble expressing his feelings. Eileen Brennan plays Richie's loving but weak mother Carol, and Lance Kerwin plays his younger brother Russell, whom Richie, despite his demons, is very protective of. Both men make genuine attempts to meet each other halfway, yielding some success, with Richie getting a job  and George helping his son get closer to Shiela , a girl from school that Richie likes. However, the relationship between George and Richie worsens as social pressures and personal failings drive Richie deeper into his drug addiction. The interaction between father and son continues to deteriorate, largely due to Richie's escalating drug abuse and his father's unwillingness to enter family counseling. The movie's climax comes when George intervenes by informing the police of his son's activities, in a desperate attempt to save his life at all costs. Richie confronts his father in a drug-induced rage , threatening him with an awl. George retreats to the basement in the family's home, where Richie follows him. George retrieves a revolver from his toolbox and aims it at Richie, but does not fire it, cocking the hammer back in an attempt to convince his son that he is not bluffing. Richie screams repeatedly for his father to shoot him. George manages to overpower Richie by knocking the awl from his hand, but Richie retreats upstairs and returns to the basement with a pair of scissors and taunts his father over and over again, daring him to shoot him, approaching him closer, thinking that George doesn't have the nerve to do it. With a steady hand, George pulls the trigger. A blinding flash from the gun's barrel then morphs into a bouquet of flowers on a mahogany casket in the same cemetery, surrounded by the same mourners in black. Following Psalm 23, a brief eulogy is read by Shiela: {{cquote}} The movie ends with a brief written epilogue over a still shot of George placing a rose on Richie's casket, stating that a grand jury voted unanimously not to indict George Werner for the shooting death of his son, and that he lives as a free man.The story is about a quiet girl, Frigga/Madeleine , who is sexually assaulted during her childhood, and the trauma makes her mute. When she becomes older, she accepts a ride from a man, Tony ([[Heinz Hopf , who makes her a heroin addict, and then becomes her pimp. At one point, she is stabbed in the eye for refusing a client. She starts saving up money to buy weapons and take classes in driving, shooting, and martial arts to take revenge.During a surprise 42nd birthday party for George Webber, a well-known composer of popular music, he finds himself coping badly with incipient middle age. When he catches a glimpse of a mysterious woman en route to her wedding, he is instantly obsessed by her beauty, and―despite the presence of his lover Samantha Taylor―follows the woman to the church where he crashes into a police cruiser and is stung by a bee. George visits the priest, and learns that the woman is Jenny Miles, daughter of a prominent Beverly Hills dentist. Later that night, Sam and George have an argument about George's failure to give her the attention she needs, his use of the term "broad", and the fact that he and his neighbor  watch each other perform carnal acts using telescopes. The final straw for Sam occurs when George makes a remark subtly impugning her femininity at which point Sam leaves in a huff. The following day, George and Sam suffer a series of mishaps that prevent them from reconciling, including George spying on his neighbor until hitting himself with his telescope and falling down an embankment, causing him to miss Sam's phone call. In addition, George schedules a dental appointment with Jenny's father, and while in the dentist's chair, subtly leads the dentist into disclosing that his daughter and her husband went to Mexico for their honeymoon. The examination also reveals a mouthful of cavities, requiring the dentist to spend the entire afternoon inserting fillings in George's teeth. The after effects of the novocaine, which are aggravated by his heavy drinking immediately after, leave him completely incoherent and when Sam finally reaches him on the phone she mistakes him for a madman and calls the police. The police storm his house, but recognizing him they leave amicably. He visits his neighbor's house to take part in an orgy just as Sam arrives at his house, and she spots him through his telescope, widening the rift between them. Later, George impulsively follows the newlyweds to their exclusive hotel in Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico. In the bar, George encounters an old acquaintance, Mary Lewis, who suffers from a lack of self-confidence because she blames herself for a series of failed relationships. When they attempt a fling that night, she interprets George's inadequacy in bed as confirmation of her insecurities despite her better-than-average looks and easygoing disposition. One hot day at the beach, George sees Jenny―suntanned and dressed in a one-piece swimsuit and her hair braided in cornrows―which furthers George's obsession. He notices that David, Jenny's husband, has fallen asleep on his surfboard. Pretending to inquire about renting a surfboard, George learns that beyond a certain point are powerful currents that can sweep a swimmer or surfer dangerously far from land. George rents a catamaran, clumsily but successfully rescues David, and becomes a hero. Both Sam and his songwriting partner see him on TV Network News and Sam tries to call him, but George  refuses the call. David, badly sunburned, stays in the hospital, allowing Jenny and George to spend time alone together, culminating in Jenny seducing him to the sounds of Ravel's Boléro. Although George is initially elated to find all of his fantasies being fulfilled, he is horrified when Jenny takes a call from her husband while in bed with him and casually informs him of George's presence. He is even more confused when David responds with a complete lack of concern . When Jenny explains their open relationship and mutual honesty, George is appalled; with the thrill of enjoying forbidden pleasures extinguished, he loses interest in Jenny and he heads back to Beverly Hills. At the end of the film, he reconciles with Sam by demonstrating a new maturity and, taking an idea from Jenny, he starts Ravel's Boléro on the phonograph and they make love with the music playing in the background. This is in full view of the neighbor's telescope shortly after the neighbor has walked away in disgust, complaining that he has had enough of providing erotic entertainment to George and getting nothing in return.Trelkovsky , a quiet and unassuming man, rents an apartment in Paris whose previous tenant, Egyptologist Simone Choule, attempted to commit suicide by throwing herself out the window and through a pane of glass below. He visits Choule in the hospital but finds her entirely in bandages and unable to talk. Whilst still at Choule's bedside, Trelkovsky meets Simone's friend, Stella , who has also come to visit. Stella begins talking to Simone, who becomes aware of her visitors. Initially showing some signs of agitation upon seeing them, Choule soon lets out a disturbing cry, then dies. It isn't clear which of the two has caused this reaction. Apparently unaware that Choule is now dead, Trelkovsky tries to comfort Stella but dares not say that he never knew Simone, instead pretending to be another friend. They leave together and go out for a drink and a movie , where they fondle each other. Outside the theatre they part ways. As Trelkovsky occupies the apartment he is chastised unreasonably by his neighbors and landlord, Monsieur Zy , for hosting a party with his friends, apparently having a woman over, making too much noise in general, and not joining in on a petition against another neighbor. Trelkovsky attempts to adapt to his situation, but is increasingly disturbed by the apartment and its tenants. He frequently sees his neighbors standing motionless in the toilet room , and discovers a hole in the wall with a human tooth stashed inside. He receives a visit and a letter from one Georges Badar , who secretly loves Simone and has believed her to be alive and well. Trelkovsky updates and comforts the man and spends the night out with him. Gradually he changes his breakfast habits like Simone and shifts from Gauloises to Marlboro cigarettes. Trelkovsky becomes severely agitated and enraged when his apartment is robbed, while his neighbors and the concierge  continue to berate him for making too much noise. He becomes hostile and paranoid in his day-to-day environment  and his mental state progressively deteriorates. He buys a wig and woman's shoes and goes on to dress up  and sit still in his apartment in the dead of night. He suspects that Zy and neighbors are trying to subtly change him into the last tenant, Simone, so that he too will kill himself. He has visions of his neighbors playing football with a human head, sees himself staring out of his own window and finds the toilet covered in hieroglyphs. Trelkovsky runs off to Stella for comfort and sleeps over, but in the morning after she has left for work, he concludes that she too is in on his neighbors' plot, and proceeds to wreak havoc in her apartment before departing. At night he is hit by an elderly couple driving a car. He is not wounded too seriously, but receives a sedative injection from the doctor due to his odd behavior—he perceives the elderly couple as landlord Zy and wife—after which the couple returns him to his apartment. A deranged Trelkovsky dresses up again as a woman and throws himself out the apartment window in the manner of Simone Choule, before what he believes to be a clapping, cheering audience composed of his neighbors. The suicide attempt, in fact, wakes up his neighbors, who arrive at the scene together with the police just in time for Trelkovsky to crawl up to his apartment and jump one more time. The end of the movie is enigmatic. Trelkovsky is bandaged up in the same fashion as Simone Choule in the same hospital bed, but we see his and Stella's own visit to Simone. Trelkovsky then lets out the same disturbing cry that Simone had screamed.A girl named Chrissie Watkins leaves an evening beach party on New England's Amity Island to go skinny dipping in the Atlantic Ocean. After swimming out near a buoy, she is seized by an unseen force from below that thrashes her around before dragging her below the surface. Chrissie is reported missing and her remains are found on the beach by police chief Martin Brody. The medical examiner informs Brody that she was killed by a shark. Brody plans to close the beaches but is overruled by Mayor Larry Vaughan, who fears that reports of a shark attack will ruin the summer tourist season, the town's primary source of income. The medical examiner consequently attributes the death to a boating accident. Brody reluctantly goes along with the explanation. The shark then kills a young boy swimming at the beach. His mother places a bounty on the shark, sparking an amateur shark-hunting frenzy and attracting the attention of local professional shark hunter Quint, who offers to kill the shark for $10,000, valuing his own life at no less. Marine biologist Matt Hooper examines Chrissie's remains and determines that she was killed by a shark, not a boat. A large tiger shark is caught by fishermen, leading the townspeople to believe the problem is solved, but Hooper asks to examine its stomach contents. Vaughan refuses to allow the necropsy. That evening, Brody and Hooper discover the dead shark does not contain human remains. They head out to sea in an attempt to find the shark. Instead, they discover the half-sunken wreckage of a boat belonging to local fisherman Ben Gardner. Hooper explores the vessel underwater and discovers a sizable shark's tooth protruding from the damaged hull before he is startled by Gardner's remains and drops the tooth. Without evidence, Vaughan refuses to close the beaches, and on the Fourth of July many tourists arrive. A children's prank causes panic at the main beach while the shark enters a nearby estuary, killing a man; Brody's son, who witnesses the attack, goes into shock. Brody persuades Vaughan to hire Quint. Quint reluctantly allows Hooper and Brody to join the hunt, but forces them to accept crew mate positions under him as a captain. The three set out to kill the shark aboard Quint's vessel, the Orca. Brody is given the task of laying a chum line while Quint uses piano wire to try to hook the shark. Later, an enormous great white shark looms up behind the boat, and the trio watch it circle the Orca while Hooper takes pictures for research and Quint estimates its size as twenty-five feet in length, with a weight of 6,000 pounds. Quint harpoons it with a line attached to a flotation barrel, but the shark pulls the barrel under and disappears. The men retire to the boat's cabin, where Quint relates his experience with sharks as a survivor of the sinking of the warship {{USS}} in 1945 during World War II . The shark reappears, damaging the boat's hull before slipping away. In the morning, the shark appears again and Brody attempts to call the U.S. Coast Guard, but Quint destroys the radio and harpoons the shark with another barrel. After a long chase, Quint harpoons another barrel to the shark. The men tie them both to the stern, but the shark drags the boat backwards, forcing water onto the deck and flooding the engine. Quint heads toward shore, hoping to draw it into shallow waters and suffocate it. In his obsession to kill the shark, Quint burns out the bearings in the Orcas engine. With the boat immobilized, the trio attempt a desperate approach: Hooper dons scuba gear and enters the ocean inside a shark proof cage, aiming to stab the shark with a hypodermic spear filled with strychnine. The shark attacks the cage from behind, causing Hooper to drop the spear. When the shark gets tangled in the wrecked cage, Hooper escapes and hides in the seabed. As Quint and Brody raise the mangled cage, the shark leaps onto the boat, crushing the transom and causing the Orca to raise up. Quint slides down the watery deck to the shark and is killed after a bloody tussle, stabbing the shark in the head with a machete. When the shark attacks again, Brody shoves a pressurized scuba tank into its mouth, then takes Quint's rifle and climbs the sinking Orca{{'}}s mast. The shark, with the tank still in its mouth, begins charging Brody. Brody shoots the scuba tank, causing it to explode and blow the shark to pieces. Hooper swims to the surface and they use the barrels to swim to shore.Tim Brett  is a former drug addict who has written a book about his experience and has been published. He has been clean for about a year. He had recently become acquainted with his aunt , a philanthropist who expresses interest in helping some of Tim's former acquaintances. She is found murdered soon after. Tim starts a relationship with Juliet , the woman who found his aunt's body, and they are soon engaged. Dissatisfied with the progress that the police are making in his aunt's murder case, he begins to ask questions of some of his aunt's acquaintances. He then begins to receive warnings from unknown persons to stop his inquiries. He meets an elderly woman on the train. She hands him a note of supposed comfort, asking him to read it at home. The note turns out to be a warning about leaving matters to the police, apparently typed on his own typewriter. There's also an ominous laugh recorded on Tim's own tape recorder, indicating that someone had been in his apartment. Tim is then visited by a police sergeant, Sgt. Matthews, who informs him that the woman on the train had lodged a complaint against Tim. Sgt. Matthews takes Tim's information but after the woman is also killed, Tim finds out that there is no sergeant by that name working at the police station. Tim is later assaulted on the streets at night by two men who leave him lying on the ground with a hypodermic needle. Tim throws the needle away down a gutter. He makes contact with a secret government agency which tells him that they are after the people who are threatening him, but all is - again - not what it seems to be. As the situation continues, Tim and Juliet's wedding fast approaches.Alice Cespi  begins to see her life fall apart due to strange memories from childhood when she was forced to watch a film called "Footprints on the Moon" involving an unethical experiment in leaving astronauts stranded on the moon's surface. Alice has terrible dreams and begins to become addicted to tranquilizers. The drugs and her deteriorating mental condition cause her to miss work and she is eventually fired, whereupon she travels to a dilapidated former tourist area called Garma after receiving a mysterious postcard. There, she runs into a girl named Paula Burton , who tells her that she looks exactly like another woman, Nicole, currently staying at the faded resort. Alice then encounters a series of strange people and circumstances, all leading her closer to unlocking the possibly deadly mystery.A married couple, Arthur and Gerrie Mason  struggle with the realities of their imperfect marriage as they fight to save and rehabilitate their teenage daughter  from having been led into a life of drug addiction and ultimate committal to a mental ward. A son, Artie, is played by Stephen McHattie.Jacques, a 40-year old citizen of Brussels, meets the fakir Abracadabra who, before dying, gives him a special power. Jacques then meets Gabriel, a generous man, who dresses up as Davy Crockett, and who follows Jacques without asking questions. The two companions and other new friends set out to conquer the Far West, their childhood—just as Voltaire sought Eldorado, and Saint-Exupéry the unknown planet. The Far West they seek cannot be found, because it is an imaginary place, a piece of happiness buried in our hearts.{{cite web}}{{cite web}}Johnny Williams  is a working painter and moonlighting want-to-be poet who is trying to keep up with life in the contemporary ghetto. Though he is trying to provide for his ill wife and almost stable family, times are hard. This film follows Johnny's struggle and a few who try to help, including his friend Dudley . The sound track is by WAR , including the song River NigerBesides the name of the heroine and her freight riding, very little of the film bears any resemblance to the original story written in Sister of the Road. The film tells the story of Bertha Thompson  and "Big" Bill Shelly , two train robbers and lovers who are caught up in the plight of railroad workers in the American South. When Bertha is implicated in the murder of a wealthy gambler, the pair become fugitives from justice. While this story adheres to certain conventions of exploitation narrative, it also offers a surprisingly frank look at race and gender issues in the 1930s.Jenifer Baylor  is a poor, red-headed young woman from West Virginia. Jennifer possesses a power over snakes, an ability to control them and communicate with them. She and her father, Luke Baylor, left their home in disgrace, because when Jennifer was around the age of seven, some snakes she had been handling killed the town preacher's son. She refused to handle snakes ever again, though Luke now runs a pet store and often encourages her to use her power again. Luke is mentally disabled, unable to make meals for himself without burning them, and relies on Jennifer since his wife died. While Luke does run the pet store, he spends most of the time in a back room, listening to Christian radio. Jennifer receives a scholarship to an upper-class girls private school. While at school, Jennifer encounters a clique of wealthy and cruel girls, who hate her for being poor and different. These girls turn others against Jennifer throughout the movie, but Jennifer also makes friends of her own, including teacher Jeff Reed . The wealthy girls' cruelty eventually pushes Jennifer over the edge, causing her to use her special powers again for the sake of revenge against those that hurt her and her new friends.The film starts with the closing scenes of Casablanca, with Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman. We then see that it is the main character, Allan Felix , who is watching the film in a cinema, mouth agape. He leaves the cinema regretting that he will never be like Rick. Apart from apparitions of Bogart he also has frequent flashbacks of conversations with his ex-wife, who constantly belittled his sexual adequacy. Allan Felix has just been through a messy divorce. His two friends, Linda Christie  and her husband Dick ([[Tony Roberts , try convincing him to go out with women again, setting him up with a series of blind dates, all of which turn out to be unsuitable. He agrees, and throughout the film, he is seen receiving dating advice from the ghost of Humphrey Bogart , who is visible and audible only to Allan. Allan's ex-wife Nancy  also makes fantasy appearances, as he imagines conversations with her about the breakdown of their marriage. On one occasion, the fantasy seems to run out of control, with both Bogart and Nancy appearing. As the film goes on we see that, when it comes to women, Allan puts on a mask. He attempts to become sexy and sophisticated, in particular he tries to be like his idol, Bogart, only to end up ruining his chances by being too clumsy. Eventually, he develops feelings for Linda, around whom he feels relatively at ease and does not feel the need to put on the mask. At the point where he finally makes his move on Linda  a vision of his ex-wife appears and shoots Bogart, leaving him without advice. He then makes an awkward move. Linda runs off but returns, realizing that Allan loves her. "As Time Goes By" plays as they kiss, with flashes from Casablanca. However, their relationship is ultimately doomed, just as it was for Rick  and Ilsa  in Casablanca. Dick comes home early from Cleveland and confides in Allan that he thinks Linda is having an affair, not working out that her affair is with Allan, but expresses his love for Linda to him. The ending is a parody of Casablancas famous ending. Dick is catching a flight to Cleveland, Linda is chasing after him, and Allan is chasing after Linda. The fog, the aircraft engine start-ups, the trenchcoats worn and the dialogue are all reminiscent of the film, as Allan nobly explains to Linda why she has to go with her husband, rather than staying behind with him. Allan says "if that plane leaves the ground and you're not on it, you'll regret it, maybe not today maybe not tomorrow, but soon, and for the rest of your life". "That is beautiful," she says, causing Allan to reply "It's from Casablanca. . . . I've waited my whole life to say it". His journey is complete. The music from the scene in Casablanca resumes the theme "As Time Goes By" and the film ends.The comedian Alvy Singer  is trying to understand why his relationship with Annie Hall  ended a year ago. Growing up in New York, he vexed his mother with impossible questions about the emptiness of existence, but he was precocious about his innocent sexual curiosity. While Annie and Alvy wait in a theater queue to watch The Sorrow and the Pity, another man loudly misinterprets the work of Marshall McLuhan. McLuhan himself steps in to correct the mistake. That night, Annie isn’t interested in having sex with Alvy. Instead, they discuss his first wife, Allison Portchnik , with whom there was little sexual pleasure. His second marriage was to a New York intellectual, but their sexual relationship was not enjoyable for him. With Annie, it is different. The two of them have uproarious fun making a meal of boiled lobster together. Alvy enjoys mocking the unusual men that Annie had been involved with. Alvy met Annie on the tennis court. After the game, their awkward small talk led her to offer him first a ride up town and then a glass of wine on her balcony. There, what seemed a mild exchange of trivial personal data is revealed in "mental subtitles" as an escalating flirtation. Their first date follows Annie’s singing audition for a night club (“[[It Had to Be You . He suggests they kiss first thing to get it out of the way. After their lovemaking that night, Alvy is "a wreck", while she relaxes with a joint. Soon Annie admits she loves him, and he buys her books on death and says that his feelings for her are more than just love. When she moves in with him, things get very tense. Alvy feels strange when they visit her family in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, for Easter. He claims to have never felt more Jewish than with her “Jew-hating” grandmother, and his imagined conversation between their two families reveals a gulf in style, substance, and background. Finding her arm in arm with one of her college professors, Alvy argues with Annie whether this is the "flexibility" they had discussed. He searches for the truth of relationships, asking strangers on the street about the nature of love, questioning his formative years, until he becomes an animated Snow White to Annie’s evil queen. The love is gone. Alvy returns to dating, but the effort is marred by neurosis, bad sex, and finally an interruption from Annie, who insists he come over immediately. It turns out she needs him to kill a spider. A reconciliation follows, coupled with a vow to stay together come what may. However, their separate discussions with their therapists make it evident there is an unspoken divide. When Alvy accepts an offer to present an award on television, they fly out to Los Angeles, but on the return they agree that it’s not working. After losing her to her record producer, Tony Lacey , he unsuccessfully tries rekindling the flame with a marriage proposal. Back in New York, he stages a play of this episode but changes the ending: now she accepts. The last meeting for them is a wistful coda on New York's Upper West Side when they have both moved on to someone new. Alvy’s voice returns with a summation: love is essential, especially if it's neurotic. Annie torches "Seems Like Old Times" and the credits roll.A couple are relaxing in a snowy forest near a small fictional town called Farnhamville. Suddenly, an axe wielding female assailant kills the boyfriend, rips the girlfriend's shirt open, and puts a dab of blood between her female victim's breasts. Then, we see the protagonists, Clifford Sturges , and Gloria Wellaby  are having trouble with their location. Their car manages to last until they reach the small and secluded town called Farnhamville, where it breaks down. At the same time, they come across another traveller who is looking for his missing sister . Stranded, Clifford and Gloria check into a small motel owned by an old lady named Mrs. Wainwright. While inside, the old lady treats the couple to an urban legend, the 'Cannibal Girls'. It is about three beautiful but psychotic women named Anthea, Clarissa, and Leona, who lured men with their seductive charm to their home only to feast on them while alive. And by eating their victims and drinking their blood, the girls maintained their youthfulness and immortality. They have a freakish little servant called 'Bunker'. Clarissa kills the first victim in a secluded room, with both of them naked. She stabs him in the gut with a pair of scissors. For the second victim, Leona does not exactly kill him, but she slowly stalks him with a knife, providing a diversion for Anthea to hack the man with an axe. The third victim wakes up the next day, wondering where all the other guys have gone. Later on, he makes love to Anthea. When he wakes up, he finds himself tied to a bed, surrounded by all three girls. At first they lick his belly, then they eat him alive right on the spot. Later, Mrs. Wainwright takes Clifford and Gloria to a small bed and breakfast house where the Cannibal Girls supposedly lived years before. There, they maintain some company in the host only known as the Reverend Alex St. John. The couple does not realize it, but their dinner is being served by the three Cannibal Girls themselves. The Reverend is the force behind the women's activities and possesses a charismatic hold on the entire town as well. Clifford and Gloria try to leave for the night, but a thunderstorm and a warning of an escaped lunatic from the Reverend prompts the couple to stay overnight. While Clifford and Gloria try to fall asleep, the traveller who was looking for his sister gets murdered by the local police as a special request from the Reverend himself. The town residents hold a gathering dedicated to the Reverend Alex St. John. Anthea, Clarissa, and Leona are fully naked standing around a small table offering their blood in a chalice to the Reverend, while chanting: "Within me and without me I honor the blood which gives me life." Then Gloria has a scary nightmare where Clifford is tied to the bed. The Reverend and the three girls force her to sacrifice Clifford. She wakes up from the nightmare, and Clifford tells her it was all a dream. For the whole day, Clifford becomes distant from Gloria and speaks to her in a demanding way. Gloria cannot place a call to her parents since the phonelines are not working. And she cannot leave town because the busses will not leave until the next morning. Clifford also develops a craving for the food that is served in the town's small diners, which is of course human meat. They are picked up by the sheriff and are taken back to the bed and breakfast house occupied by the Cannibal Girls. When they walk inside, it is revealed that Clifford will offer Gloria as a sacrifice to the Reverend in exchange for his life. However, the Reverend has a change of heart, as he offers Gloria a mace. Fueled by her anger for her boyfriend's betrayal, Gloria mercilessly swings the mace into Clifford's stomach, killing him. During the final scene, The Reverend, Anthea, Clarissa, Leona, Bunker, and Gloria are seated at the table, with Clifford as the meal. At first Gloria is hesitant to eat her former boyfriend, but after a sign of encouragement from the Reverend, she happily digs in. In the epilogue, it turns out that this entire event is actually being told by Mrs. Wainwright, this time about four Cannibal Girls to another couple stranded in their town. And the old lady is also recommending the bed and breakfast place to them, too. It is implied the young woman with her boyfriend will become another Cannibal Girl...Adam Thornton , an ill-tempered executive who walked out on his family, learns that he only has a little time left to live. He decides that he wants to make peace with his family and have one last reunion. He confides this information to his estranged wife Kate Thornton . But when his doctor says that it won't be good for him to travel, she suggests that he call his four adult children and invite them all for Christmas. He agrees only with the provision that they not be told of his illness and imminent death. The only problem is that most of his family are not exactly fond of him because he walked out on his wife and because of his stubborn nature. Of his four children, Adam is most nervous about seeing Bud Thornton  whom he hasn't spoken to since having an argument regarding the Vietnam War and his moving to Canada, several years prior.David Martinaud is an accountant who leaves town for the weekends on the pretense that he is going to the old age home to care for his aging parents, who are in fact dead. He is really fixing up a chalet, where he intends to move in with Lise, who he has loved since childhood. However, Lise is just married to another and has a child, but this does not stop the warped and depressed David from pursuing his dream, which is motivated by a deep-seeted feeling of sexual inadequacy.Set in 1848 in the Montana Territory, Ben Johnson plays John Coulter who lives on the plains with his daughter Beth and his friend Standing Bear. The story is told mainly from a Native American point of view. Beth is kidnapped by Greyeagle of the Cheyenne nation, who was tasked by the nation's chief to find bring Beth to him. Coulter and Standing Bear go through various adventures to find Beth to bring her back safely home.After World War II, Cindy  has moved from the south to live in Harlem with her newly blended family. She finds herself constantly abused by her stepmother and stepsisters. Her father  provides some comfort but cannot prevent the abuse entirely. One night, she meets Captain Joe Prince  and is swept off her feet. Soon after, a romance ensues.Ann Collins  and her husband David Collins  are expecting a baby. Unfortunately, Ann is experiencing intense kicking and labor pains. Unbeknownst to the couple is that Ann is expecting an extraterrestrial being that is attempting to take over Ann's mind and body.At a reception for the launch of a new perfume, a man named Frédéric sees a photo of the ruins of an old château by the sea. His mind takes him back to when he was a young boy, walking up to the gate of the château and speaking with a girl who appears to be a little older than he is. Frédéric opens the gate and the girl tells him to go to sleep, and later she returns and wakes him, he leaves her and closes the gate behind him. The girl tells him to open the gate but he promises her that he will be back to free her. Frédéric's mind comes back to reality and he becomes convinced that the meeting between him and the girl actually happened. He tells his mother who begins to act strangely and tells him he must have imagined it, he doesn't agree and sets out to find this girl and set her free. Jennifer, the girl from the château, begins to appear to Frédéric in a number of visions, but she does not speak to him, which makes it much more difficult to find her at the Château. On one of her appearances, Jennifer leads Frédéric to a cemetery where she makes him open up a number of coffins that unleash a hoard of female vampires. Frédéric runs off and is soon met by a woman claiming to be Jennifer as she would be now. The woman leads him to an abandoned apartment block and locks him in, as the real Jennifer watches from a distance. The woman is then killed by the vampires, who free Frédéric. A man with a gun almost kills Frédéric, but he manages to escape him and go home, where his mother has him committed to a mental hospital. It was also his mother who had the woman and the man with the gun stop him from finding the Château. At the hospital Jennifer appears to him again, but he begins to doubt his sanity when she doesn't speak. The vampires show up at the hospital and kill his psychiatrist and let him escape. walking along the streets, Frédéric buys a postcard from a blind man which is of the Château, the name of it is 'Sauveterre Castle'. as he boards a train, Jennifer appears once more to him and smiles, knowing that he is on his way to her. Once at the Château he is met by the vampires and then find Jennifer's coffin which is surrounded by a shrine, but before he opens it his mother appears in the doorway and tells him not to free Jennifer and that he didn't imagine meeting her as a young boy. She explains that she is a vampire and she infected several people including the four female vampires he freed. As daylight sets in Frédéric's mother and a group of men hunt and kill the four vampires, she asks Frédéric to kill Jennifer. He brings the head of a doll which his mother thinks is Jennifer's head to be burnt along with the four other vampires. Frédéric and Jennifer go to the beach, and she is happy to be seeing daylight after 20 years. Jennifer bites Frédéric and they climb into the coffin to let the tide take them out into the ocean.A young woman is invited by her girlfriend, who lives in an English country mansion, to stay there with her. The estate, however, isn't quite what it seems--and neither is the friend who issued the invitation.The film starts with Stella Chernak , who arrives at the Peyton Tower Hotel in Peyton Place after an absence of numerous years. She has returned to destroy the small town, and is able to use her power through Jay Kamens , the president of the Peyton Mills and her trustee. Another former citizen returning to Peyton Place is Betty Anderson . Although she is now married to David Roerick , she agreed to a secret meeting with her ex-husband Rodney Harrington near Peyton Place. Her friend Denise Haley  offers her a roof, despite her husband Stan Haley's  objections about her presence. Another resident dissatisfied with Betty's arrival is Constance MacKenzie , who fears that Betty will interfere with Rodney's relationship with her daughter Allison MacKenzie. Betty sneaks out of the Haley house at night to meet with Rodney somewhere near Peyton Place, but witnesses the Winnebago crashing and exploding in which Rodney and Allison are driving. The town is in deep sorrow when it is revealed that Rodney and Allison have died. Rodney's brother Norman Harrington ([[Christopher Connelly , now married to Jill , refuses to accept that Rodney and Allison have died because of drunk driving, which the police have concluded after finding alcohol in the RV. Along with Betty and lawyer Steven Cord , Norman starts an investigation to find out what really happened on the night when Rodney and Allison died. He is unaware that Jill's family is somehow involved with the origins of the car accident, and her father Bo Buehler  even witnessed the car crash. The research endangers both Steven and Betty's marriage; Steven's wife Carla  suspects that he is somehow involved with Betty after he was out all night, and Betty's husband David does not understand why she is staying in Peyton Place. Betty's marriage is saved; Steven and Carla's fate together remains uncertain. Norman, Betty and Steven eventually conclude that the powerful company New Star Corporation is trying to take over Peyton Place by sabotaging the town's water supply. In the hospital, Constance and her husband Elliot Carson ([[Tim O'Connor  are brought in to identify the bodies. Elliot claims that the girl on the table is not Allison, after which doctor Tommy Crimpton  is held responsible and gets fired by Ellen Considine . Ellen is the secretary and lover of doctor Michael Rossi , who has come to town to hide a dark secret from the past involving her teenage son Andy . Andy feels attracted to Jill's younger sister Bonnie , who in her turn is blackmailed by lovestruck teen Billie Kaiserman  due to her affair with Stan. Meanwhile, Norman hires a musician named Springer  to find out who is the head of New Star Corporation. Springer breaks in its office, and while going through documents, he finds out that Stella is the boss of New Star Corporation, and that two days before their death, Rodney and Allison went through the same documents. Springer tries to warn Norman about this, but he is shot by Stella's servant Tristan  before he can. Hereafter, Stella allows Elliot's request for an inquest, because she is certain that some of the medical examiners hired by her will give the court a false death cause. The examiners were able to interfere due to Crimpton blackmailing Ellen with the information that Andy has spent three years in a hospital for the criminally insane for arsoning. Stella was not aware, though, that Dr. Rossi examined the bodies himself and found out that Rodney and Allison were shot to death. Afterwards, Steven orders a warrant for Stella. Stella is, along with Crimpton and other accomplices, in the Peyton Tower Hotel, where they are keeping Jill as a hostage. Norman receives a threat note to sabotage the inquest if he wants to see his wife ever again. Instead, he and Michael set out to the Peyton Tower Hotel, where they try to stop Stella. It results into a major fight, during which Stella falls to death from the balcony.Government agent Harry Hannan goes across the Texas border from El Paso to a town in Mexico to meet a contact in a cantina. But it's a set-up and his wife is murdered. Harry ends up in a Connecticut sanitarium, where his sanity is in some doubt. He receives a mysterious anonymous letter written in Hebrew and signed: "Avenger of Blood." Helped by a woman named Ellie Fabian who has a few secrets of her own, Harry ends up in a life-threatening climactic chase at Niagara Falls.The minimal plot involves two women whose personalities are in sharp contrast when they first meet and move in together. The third woman of the titular three is a key supporting character—a mural artist  who owns, with her husband, the same apartment building. The events take place in a small desert community typical of those found east of Los Angeles. For obvious reasons the film has a dream-like quality, focusing more on behavior, mood and mystery than on plot devices. What the film is about exactly is open to interpretation, and even Altman said he was not sure what the ending means but has a "theory" about what happens. What is clear is that the two principal characters undergo a transformation in which they exchange their relative status to each other. In this way, 3 Women has a kinship with Bergman's Persona . Duvall plays Mildred "Millie" Lammoreaux, a woman who is very confident of her personal charisma, and her attractiveness to men in particular, despite the fact that the men she hits on openly mock her. In the director's commentary on the Criterion edition, Altman claims that Duvall was responsible for creating her character's diary entries, recipes, and much of her dialog in the film. Spacek plays Pinky Rose, a naive, childlike woman, who refuses to talk about her past and who initially idolizes Duvall, but eventually comes to dominate her. They both work at a physical therapy facility and much of the film takes place at their apartment building, where the third woman, Willie Hart, played by Janice Rule, creates striking and somewhat unsettling murals .A working-class housewife is sexually unsatisfied by her husband. When she seeks extramarital relationships, her affairs are discovered by a brothel-owner who then blackmails the woman into working as a prostitute for her.Viviane , the wife of the French consul in Melbourne, joins a group of explorers in search of a mysterious hidden valley in the bush of New Guinea, where she hopes to find the feathers of an extremely rare exotic bird. Along the way through the dense jungles of Papua New Guinea and on the peak of Mount Gilowe, she and the small group of explorers make contact with the Mapuga tribe, one of the most isolated groups of human beings on earth, who inspire them to explore their own humanity, unfettered by their own subjective ideas of "civilization". The search becomes a search for a paradise said to exist within a valley marked as "obscured by clouds" on the maps.The film opens with a series of still photographs appearing over melancholic music, representing the abstract memories of the unseen Herman Raucher, now a middle-aged man. We then hear Raucher  recalling the summer he spent on the island in 1942. The film flashes back to a day that then 15-year-old "Hermie"  and his friends – jock Oscy  and introverted nerd Benjie  – spent playing on the beach. They spot a young soldier carrying his new bride  into a house on the beach and are struck by her beauty, especially Hermie, who is unable to get her out of his mind. They continue spending afternoons on the beach where, in the midst of scantily-clad teenage girls, their thoughts invariably turn to sex. All of them are virgins: Oscy is obsessed with the act of sex, while Hermie finds himself developing romantic interest in the bride, whose husband he spots leaving the island on a water taxi one morning. Later that day, Hermie finds her trying to carry bags of groceries by herself, and helps get them back to her house. They strike up a friendship and he agrees to return to help her with chores. Meanwhile, Oscy and Hermie, thanks to a sex manual discovered by Benjie, become convinced they know everything necessary to lose their virginity. Led by Oscy, they test this by going to the cinema and picking-up a trio of high-school girls. Oscy stakes out the most attractive one, Miriam ([[Christopher Norris , "giving" Hermie her less attractive friend, Aggie  and leaving Benjie with Gloria, a heavyset girl with braces. Frightened by the immediacy of sex, Benjie runs off, and is not seen by Hermie or Oscy again that night. Hermie and Oscy spend the entirety of the evening's film attempting to "put the moves" on Miriam and Aggie. Oscy pursues Miriam, eventually making out with her during the movie, and later learns her ways are well-known on the island. Hermie finds himself succeeding with Aggie, who allows him to grope what he thinks is her breast; Oscy later points out Hermie was fondling her arm. The next morning, Hermie helps the bride move boxes into her attic and she thanks him by giving him a kiss on the forehead. Later, in preparation for a marshmallow roast on the beach with Aggie and Miriam, Hermie goes to the local drugstore. In a painfully humorous sequence he builds up the nerve to ask for condoms. That night, Hermie roasts marshmallows with Aggie while Oscy succeeds in having sex with Miriam between the dunes. He is so successful he sneaks over to Hermie and Aggie to ask for more condoms. Confused as to what's happening, Aggie follows Oscy back, where she sees him having sex with Miriam and runs home, upset. The next day, Hermie comes across the bride sitting outside her house, writing to her husband. Hermie offers to keep her company that night and she says she looks forward to seeing him, revealing her name is Dorothy. An elated Hermie goes home and puts on a suit, dress shirt and heads back to Dorothy's house, running into Oscy on the way; Oscy relates that Miriam's appendix burst and she's been rushed to the mainland. Hermie, convinced he is at the brink of adulthood because of his relationship with Dorothy, brushes Oscy off. He heads to her house, which is eerily quiet. Going in, he discovers a bottle of whiskey, several cigarette butts, and a telegram from the government. Dorothy's husband is dead, his plane shot down over France. Dorothy comes out of her bedroom, crying, and Hermie tells her "I'm sorry." The sense of empathy triggers her to channel to Hermie some of her loneliness. She turns on the record player and invites Hermie to dance with her. They kiss and embrace, tears on both their faces. Without speaking, and to the sound only of the waves, they move to the bedroom, where she draws him into bed and gently makes love with him. Afterward, withdrawing again into her world of hurt, Dorothy retires to the porch, leaving Hermie alone in her bedroom. He approaches her on the porch, where she can only quietly say "Good night, Hermie." He leaves, his last image of Dorothy being of her leaning against the railing, as she smokes a cigarette and stares into the night sky. At dawn Hermie meets Oscy and the two share a moment of reconciliation, with Oscy informing Hermie that Miriam will recover. Oscy, in an uncharacteristic act of sensitivity, lets Hermie be by himself, departing with the words, "Sometimes life is one big pain in the ass." Trying to sort out what has happened, Hermie goes back to Dorothy's house. Dorothy has fled the island in the night and an envelope is tacked to the front door with Hermie's name on it. Inside is a note from Dorothy, saying she hopes he understands she must go back home as there is much to do. She assures Hermie she will never forget him, and he will find his way of remembering what happened that night. Her note closes with the hope that Hermie may be spared the senseless tragedies of life. In the final scene, Hermie, suddenly approaching manhood, is seen looking at Dorothy's old house and the ocean from a distance before he turns to join his friends. To bittersweet music, the adult Raucher sadly recounts that he has never seen Dorothy again or learned what became of her. After the film ends, the cast is given by showing a still photo of each of the primary cast members with a superimposed name. The movie had exactly eight on-screen speaking characters: Dorothy, the Terrible Trio, the three teenaged girls and the druggist.Emmanuelle flies to Bangkok to meet her husband Jean, a diplomat, who asks her if she had any other lovers while she was in Paris; she replies that she has not. In Bangkok, Emmanuelle finds herself bored and somewhat disgusted with the worldliness of her fellow French expatriates, until one day at a pool when she spies Bee, a Frenchwoman whom she is informed is outside of most of the expatriate circles. After taking a nude swim, she is approached by a pretty young girl named Marie-Ange, who asks to meet Emmanuelle at her house. Intrigued, Emmanuelle agrees. Marie-Ange arrives at the house and finds Emmanuelle sleeping, and takes advantage of the situation to feel the older woman's body. Emmanuelle wakes up and they go outside to the porch. Marie-Ange asks Emmanuelle if she has any photos of herself and Jean having sex, to which an incredulous Emmanuelle replies no. Marie-Ange takes a French magazine with a picture of Paul Newman and begins to masturbate in front of Emmanuelle, who watches, fascinated. Emmanuelle confesses to Marie-Ange that while she did not cheat on her husband in Paris, she did have sex with two strangers on the flight over to Bangkok. Emmanuelle begins to pleasure herself for Marie-Ange as she recounts the tryst. That night, Emmanuelle tells Jean about Marie-Ange, expressing her amazement at the younger girl's seemingly complete lack of shame, and Jean encourages her to pursue the friendship further. During a squash match the next day, Emmanuelle's friend Ariane comments on her being damp from sweat, and begins to feel her up. At a party soon afterwards, Marie-Ange introduces Emmanuelle to one of her older lovers, a gentleman named Mario, who tells her that he will send a car for her the next night, but Emmanuelle is unimpressed. She spies Bee and strikes up a conversation, wishing to meet with Bee in more private quarters. Bee, an archaeologist, tells Emmanuelle that she is leaving the next day for a dig, but tells her to meet her at the klongs. When they meet up at the klongs, Emmanuelle follows Bee around, but Bee is uninterested in playing with Emmanuelle. Undeterred, Emmanuelle gets on Bee's jeep as she is about to leave for the dig site. Back at the house, Jean is angered that Emmanuelle has left without telling him anything. Suspecting that Ariane is behind it, he goes and demands answers from her, but Ariane tells him that all she has to offer is consolation sex. An enraged Jean takes her on a table. At first, Emmanuelle's affair with Bee is on rocky footing; they stop to go skinny-dipping on the way to the dig site, but when Emmanuelle tries to relax next to Bee while they dry off, she brushes her off, saying that they've already lost time. After reaching the dig site, Bee starts to warm up to her new companion, but throughout the day, Emmanuelle distracts her from her work. They finally make love, but afterwards, Bee asks Emmanuelle to leave. Emmanuelle returns home in tears, feeling humiliated. Jean tries to comfort her, advising her that the best way to get over Bee is to take another lover. At the squash courts the following day, Emmanuelle and Ariane argue. Ariane is jealous that Emmanuelle ran off with Bee, as she herself had hoped to be Emmanuelle's first female lover, while Emmanuelle is displeased at Ariane for having sex with Jean. Ariane protests that it was more like rape than consensual sex, then advises Emmanuelle to meet with Mario, telling her that at his age, making love becomes so difficult that any man capable of it must be an artist. Later, Emmanuelle consults with Jean, who has decided to encourage the relationship between her and Mario by leaving her with him for two days. She expresses a desire to take Marie-Ange as her new lover instead, but Jean informs her that Marie-Ange has gone off on a trip with her parents - a fact that he knows because he has slept with her - and so Emmanuelle resigns herself to a meeting with Mario. At their first dinner together, Mario tells Emmanuelle that monogamy will soon die out. He tells her that she must learn to let lust, rather than guilt or reason, guide her when it comes to sex. This, he says, will lead her to greater levels of pleasure than she ever imagined possible. To begin instilling this lesson in her, he takes her to an opium den, where she is raped by one of the denizens while he watches. Later, Mario takes Emmanuelle to a makeshift boxing ring, where he talks two young men into fighting each other for the right to have sex with her. At Mario's insistence, Emmanuelle chooses one of the men as her favorite, then watches as they fight. Her chosen champion prevails, and she is so aroused by his willingness to fight for her that she licks the blood from a wound on his forehead and then allows him to take her from behind. She soon climaxes and drops to the floor with exhaustion. Sometime later, Emmanuelle is awakened by Mario, who takes her into another room. She is told to undress, so that she can change into a dress with a zipper down the back, allowing Mario to strip her naked in an instant. This, she understands, is in preparation for her next sexual encounter. Emmanuelle protests that she is tired, and asks Mario if he himself will ever have sex with her, to which Mario replies that he is waiting for the "next Emmanuelle"  As the movie ends, Emmanuelle sits at a mirror and begins applying makeup, hoping that by following Mario's instructions, she will reach the higher levels of pleasure that he has promised.Joan Mitchell  is the 39-year-old wife of a businessman, Jack Mitchell . They live in suburban Pittsburgh with their 19-year-old daughter Nikki , a student. Joan is unhappy and bored with her housewife role. Jack is busy, embarking on long business trips every week. Joan has been seeing a psychotherapist because of her recurring dreams about her husband controlling her. Joan and her friends learn about a new woman in the neighborhood named Marion Hamilton  who practices witchcraft. Prompted by curiosity, Joan and one of her friends, Shirley , drive over to Marion's house one night for a Tarot reading. Marion is the leader of a secret witches' coven. Joan and Shirley drive home to Joan's house, where they meet Gregg , a student teacher at Nikki's college . The four drink and talk. Gregg shows an interest in Joan, who rebuffs him. Joan throws Gregg out of her house after he cruelly tricks Shirley into believing that she has smoked pot. After taking Shirley home, Joan returns home to hear Nikki and Gregg having sex. Turned on, she quietly goes to her bedroom and begins touching herself until Nikki walks in on her. The next day, a furious Nikki leaves without telling anybody where she is going, and soon afterward Jack leaves for a one week business trip, with Joan feeling more lonely than ever. Joan buys a book about witchcraft. She conjures a spell to make Gregg attracted to her, and soon they are engaged in an affair. She also has increasingly terrifying nightmares, in which she is attacked by an intruder wearing a Satanic mask. Believing that she is a witch, Joan's grip on reality blurs, leading to tragedy. The police tell Joan they have found Nikki in Buffalo, New York and that she will be coming home in three or four days. After one last sexual encounter with Gregg, Joan tells him she does not want to see him again. After another terrifying nightmare involving the masked intruder, Joan accidentally shoots and kills her husband, who has unexpectedly returned home early from his trip. Joan joins Marion's coven. Cleared of her husband's death which was ruled an accident, Joan resumes attending parties with her friends, where she quietly introduces herself as a witch. But Joan still remains lonely when people around her still refer to as "Mrs. Mitchell", or simply "Jack's wife".Four friends put on clown costumes, kidnap one of their old girlfriends from a costume party and hold her in a remote farmhouse in what is supposed to be an innocent Halloween prank. Tensions flare quickly, but old jealousy and resentment turn to suspicion and terror when the group realizes that a masked clown among them has a real axe.Stork is a 6 foot 7 hypochondriac who dreams of revolution and works at General Motors Holden. He is sacked from his job after doing a strip tease at work and goes to live in a share house in Carlton with his friend Westy and two trendy young men, Tony and Clyde, who share the same girlfriend, Anna. Stork loses his virginity to Anna and falls in love with her. Anna falls pregnant and Clyde decides to marry her. Stork interrupts the wedding.The four segments of the film average about 30 minutes in length and are presented in the following order.The Miles Ago database of Australian films * Part 1: "The Husband" - Focuses on a suburban husband and wife, their relationship and their sexual fantasies. * Part 2: "The Child" - A lonely boy seeks revenge on a man he finds engaging in intercourse with his beloved governess. * Part 3: "The Priest" - A priest contemplates leaving the church as a result of his indefatigable attraction to a nun. * Part 4: "The Family Man" - The husband of a woman in labor arranges with a friend to take two women to a secluded beach house.Two sets of identical twins, played by Wilder and Sutherland, are accidentally switched at birth. One set, Phillipe and Pierre DeSisi, is aristocratic and haughty, while the other set, Charles and Claude Coupé, poor and dim-witted. On the eve of the French Revolution, both sets find themselves entangled in palace intrigues.When her husband Archibald "Archie" Christie  confronts her with his affair and demands a divorce, crime writer Agatha Christie  tells him that she fears for her life and promptly vanishes. She signs into a Harrogate hotel under the name of a relative of Archie’s lover and, as the country flies into a frenzy of rumour regarding her disappearance, secretly plans a dark revenge against him that can only be averted by Wally Stanton , an ambitious American journalist who falls in love with her.Norah Benson, a wealthy Manhattan socialite, and her younger brother Joel Delaney attend a party being given by Norah's friend Dr. Erika Lorenz. Joel's girlfriend Sherry appears later on during the party. Norah is extremely protective of her brother, and it is subtly implied that theirs is not an ordinary siblings' relationship. Although there is no open allusion to incest, their demeanor together catches the eye of other people attending the party, many of them mistaking Joel for Norah's younger lover. The siblings have sensibly different, albeit somehow complementary mindsets; in contrast to Norah's upscale, self-compliant snobbishness, Joel is more of an adventurous, bohemian type and frequently goes on trips to exotic locations, the latest of which being Tangiers. Two days after the party, Joel fails to attend a scheduled dinner at Norah's house. When she calls him, all she hears is exotic music playing in the background, followed by somebody breathing and making odd sounds into the phone. She tells her children Carrie and Peter to go ahead and eat, and heads over to her brother's seedy Spanish Harlem apartment to find out about his delay. Norah sees her brother, screaming hysterically and in handcuffs, dragged out by the police. She then learns that he tried to kill the building superintendent, Mr. Pérez , and is being taken to Bellevue Hospital. Using the connections provided by her former husband Ted, a prominent surgeon, she learns that Joel has been taken to the psychiatric ward for observation. At Joel's apartment, she finds the whole place in disarray and an eerie sign  painted in the wall of both the super's and his brother's flats. She also finds an unusually large switchblade knife. Sherry arrives and dismisses the possibility of Joel being homicidal, although she admits to him having a "dark side". At the hospital, Joel claims not to remember the assault on the super. He insists that he did not take drugs but agrees to confess he did in exchange for leaving Bellevue and attending daily appointments with Dr. Lorenz. In one session, Erika asks why someone from such an affluent background would want to live in the EEast Village. Joel tells her he formed a strong bond with a young Puerto Rican named Tonio Pérez . At home, Joel behaves oddly. He asks Norah inappropriate questions about her sex life. He sneaks from his room and goes to a nearby nightclub where he finds Sherry intoxicated and flirting with other men. At her luxury high-rise apartment, Joel gets rough during their lovemaking. The next day is his birthday and he invites Sherry to Norah's place for a small party, attended by Norah's kids plus Sherry and Veronica. Joel starts acting childishly, pretending he has found Sherry's lost earring. He then nearly burns Sherry's hair in the candles on the cake and spouts insults in fluent Spanish. Norah goes to Sherry's apartment to return her other earring. To her horror she finds the girl's decapitated body on the bed and her head hanging from a huge plant. Detective Brady  arrives to question her, asking whether Joel has any Puerto Rican friends. It turns out the murder is similar to three others from the summer before in which the victims were found decapitated this way. The grisly deaths got little attention because the girls were Hispanic. The belief is that Tonio Pérez committed the crimes but he's been missing ever since. The investigation stalled when Pérez's neighbors in Spanish Harlem refused to cooperate. The detective insists on seeing Joel, who is taken away by the officer. Norah goes to the library to look at articles about the Pérez murders. She calls home to speak to Veronica but finds out that the maid quit. Norah takes a taxi up to Spanish Harlem and implores Veronica to help her learn what's going on with her brother. Norah is given the name and address of Don Pedro , owner of a store that sells paraphernalia for Santería rituals. He asks her to bring one of Joel's belongings to his flat. Norah brings a scarf belonging to Joel and finds Tonio's mother, who claims that Tonio is dead and his spirit has entered Joel's body. Mrs. Pérez admits that her son killed the other three girls and tells Norah that Tonio's father killed him when he found out. Others arrive and the ceremony begins. All seem possessed by the spirit they're trying to channel. The ritual turns out to be a failure, though; according to Don Pedro, Tonio's spirit doesn't want to come out because Norah isn't a believer. She must return with Joel. At home, she finds Joel screaming  and barricaded inside. She takes the kids to Erika's apartment. Erika promises to deal with Joel. Norah rents a car and goes to her beach house. Erika's husband leaves for a business trip, unaware that Joel is standing outside of their apartment building. Norah comes back from the beach with her children and finds Erika's decapitated head on a cabinet above the refrigerator. Joel is standing nearby with a knife. Now uniformly possessed by his Spanish-speaking persona, he keeps them captive and subjects them to both physical and psychological torment. He taunts them by graphically cutting open a fish the kids caught. Joel puts on music and orders them all to dance. He orders the boy to strip. In the kitchen he tries to force Carrie to eat dog food before slashing her neck slightly. Benson and the police arrive and Norah yells at them not to shoot. They can only watch what's happening through the glass doors. Norah lunges at Joel to stop him, but he gives his sister a passionate kiss . Norah tells the kids to run out of the house. Joel goes after them and is shot by one of the officers. His sister runs to his side but it's too late. As she cradles him in her arms, something seems to overcome her. Norah picks up the knife and holds it up toward the cop, now seemingly possessed.Violette Nozière  is a French teen in the 1930s who secretly works as a prostitute while living with her unsuspecting parents, father Baptiste Nozière  and mother Germaine Nozière . Rebelling against her "mean and petty" petit-bourgeois parents, she falls in love with a spendthrift young man, whom she virtually supports with thefts from her parents as well as her prostitution earnings. Meanwhile, her parents are informed by Violette's doctor that she has syphilis. Violette manages to half-persuade her suspicious mother and indulgent father that she has somehow inherited the disease from them. On this pretext, she tricks them into taking "medicine" that is actually poison, killing her father; her mother, however, survives, and Violette is arrested and charged with murder. She defends herself by alleging that her father had molested her; Chabrol's abrupt use of flashbacks makes it uncertain whether Violette is simply lying or telling a half-truth. She is convicted of murder and sentenced to die by guillotine, but a voiceover at the end tells us that her sentence was commuted by degrees to the point that she ultimately left prison, married, and had five children.Based on Raymond Radiguet's the book of the same name, posthumously published in 1924, the film concerns a ball hosted by the Comte d'Orgel . Set in 1920, the Comte hosts a soirée and dance for the upper echelons of society in Paris. One of the guests is a handsome young man named François de Séryeuse , who during the course of the ball falls in love with the Comte's wife, Comtesse Mahé . The Comtesse alerts her husband , but he dismisses it, seeing de Séryeuse as childish and common. However, Mahé falls for François, and faints with passion on stage during a performance of The Tempest with François. Mahé continues to dream about him, however she is confined into her marriage.Andreas and Karin Vergerus  live in fine rapport, their personalities matching well. Both are quiet, contemplative, and very rational persons, not liable to act spontaneously. The intruder, "David Kovac", played by Elliott Gould, is in contrast an impetuous man, uncompromising, overbearing, and tormented by inner contradictions and compulsions. Karin and David become clandestine lovers, but aren't appropriate for each other. Before they meet David attempted suicide and Karin was unhappy to be reduced to a wife. They flower in their new love and it destroys their lives.Hélène Régnier's  mentally ill husband Charles  injures their son Michel in a violent rage. Charles is then forced to move back in with his wealthy and manipulative parents, who use Hélène as a scapegoat for their son's mental state and decide to take over custody of Michel by any means necessary. While the boy is recovering in a local hospital, Hélène moves to a boarding house nearby. The Régniers hire Paul Thomas , an impoverished family acquaintance, to find out something about Hélène which would help them in their custody battle. Paul moves into the boarding house and, with the help of his girlfriend Sonia , plots to ruin Hélène's reputation and then possibly kill her.Charles Nichols is a respected doctor. He is also a new widower, and as soon as he returns from a tropical vacation and period of mourning, he finds himself propositioned by a number of women. The hospital where Charley works is ineptly run by Dr. Amos Willoughby, a senile chief of staff. Typical of the incompetence there is the way a fractured jaw of patient Ann Atkinson is being treated by Willoughby with a primitive contraption. Charley frees her from the device, angering Willoughby for stealing a patient. Charley and his pal Dr. Norman Solomon know something needs to be done about Willoughby, but because the "old fart" now has a hold on him, Charley agrees to nominate Willoughby for one more term as the hospital's chief. The divorced Ann proves attractive to Charley. She is a bright conversationalist and bakes delicious cheesecake that she sells. Charley enjoys being with her and helps her land a job at the hospital, but with all the available women out there, he is reluctant to commit to a monogamous relationship. Ann finally persuades him to agree to a trial period of a few weeks. At the hospital, a botched diagnosis leads to the death of a wealthy owner of a baseball team. The widow, Ellen Grady, intends to sue for millions, saying the only thing she knows about medicine is that nobody at this place can practice it. Charley tries to charm her. They share a common background and Mrs. Grady is definitely interested in him. But she nonetheless adamantly refuses to drop the lawsuit, and when Charley neglects a date with Ann and shows up late with a lame excuse, she angrily hides his clothes while he showers. Ann also wants him to show some backbone in not nominating Willoughby for chief of medicine, but he does so anyway. Willoughby reneges on a promise to stop personally treating patients, however, so Charley takes back his nomination. He then does his best to win Ann back as well.Sarah Travis  is fifteen years old and severely unhappy as a consequence of feeling isolated and inadequate. Her parents are divorced and she has minimal contact with her alcoholic father. Sarah lives with her mother, JoAnne, and stepfather, Matt. They do not notice how lonely Sarah is. She feels overshadowed by her sister, Nancy, and wishes to live with her father. Sarah commences drinking alcohol at a party hosted by her mother and stepfather. She feels uncomfortable with standard questions the guests ask her about how she is doing at school and what her favorite subjects are. Sarah is overcome with anxiety when she is forced to engage in conversations with important people at the party. She feels out of place in several situations. For example, her desire to fit in at school manifests itself with her attempting to become a member of the Glee Club. Unfortunately, Sarah is not accepted. Over the course of the film, Sarah makes numerous attempts to have contact with her salesman father, Richard , who often ignores his daughter's sincere attempts to have a meaningful father-daughter relationship with him. When Richard makes the effort to see her, he presents himself as someone who is interested in Sarah's life and wants to please his daughter. They often have fun together. When they meet, Sarah is disappointed to discover that her father is unemployed. He responds by asking Sarah to get him a beer. Her mood, however, improves when her father tells her that he threw his sample case from a bridge; this is a source of amusement for her. Richard shows that he is capable of showing affection for his daughter. Sarah is even more pleased when Richard gives her money in order to purchase an outfit. At first, when Sarah drinks, the alcohol seems to suppress her feelings of anxiety, insignificance and inadequacy. She associates happiness with drinking. For example, Sarah is embarrassed and humiliated when her mother arranges for her to attend a party at the Peterson's with a date, Ken. When Sarah emphatically states that she does not want to go, her mother's primary concern is of the social repurcussions if Sarah does not attend the party. Thus, at the party, Sarah plies herself with alcohol in order to satiate her feelings of inferiority. She surprises herself and others when she plays the guitar, which everyone at the party appreciates. When Sarah becomes inebriated at the party, her parents attribute blame to Ken, even though it was Sarah who made the conscious decision to drink copious amounts of alcoholic beverages. JoAnne is more concerned with the impression that the guests formed at the party of Sarah as opposed to caring about the welfare of her daughter. Ken exhibits an interest in Sarah. For example, he introduces her to his horse, Daisy. He invites her to spend a day with him and the two teenagers bond while riding Daisy. As a result of Sarah's close relationship with Ken, Sarah becomes more popular at school. While life at school improves for Sarah, her home life continues to be complicated, confusing amd erratic. For example, her mother decides to fire Margaret, the housekeeper, whom she has accused of watering down the scotch. Sarah knows that she herself is to blame and attempts to stand up for Maragaret. By this point in time, Sarah has began to appropriate the alcohol which is delivered to the house. Although Sarah exhibits symptoms of shame as a result of her drinking, she begins to consume alcohol at school. Matters become even more complex for Sarah when the school counsellor speaks to JoAnne and Sarah about the fact that Sarah has not attended classes. JoAnne also realises that Sarah has forged notes in JoAnne's name excusing her daughter from her classes. The counsellor is adamant that something is wrong in Sarah's life. JoAnne takes offence to this statement. The counsellor characterises Sarah as a student with a high I.Q. who once took a diligent approach to her schoolwork. JoAnne resents the counsellor's interventions and feels that she is being targeted because Sarah's parents are divorced. When Ken confronts Sarah about her binge drinking, she confesses that she drinks because the alcohol makes life a little bit easier. As the film progresses, Sarah endeavours to be regarded as mature. Her Daffy Duck hat, however, belies her attempts. She dons the hat when she babysits for the Tylers. When she does so, Ken  gently rebuffs her when she tells him that she loves him. To make matters worse, Sarah is unable to contact with her father when she attempts to do so by telephone. Sarah drinks when she is supposed to be babysitting and then passes out. When her mother discovers what Sarah has been up to, her only concern is that Sarah will be the focus of neighbourhood gossip. In a confrontation with Matt and JoAnne, Sarah states that she has been drinking almost everyday for two years. As she drinks more, however, things begin to get out of control. When Sarah and her mother see a doctor, her mother proves her inadequacy as a parent because she refuses to believe that Sarah has a problem and is only concerned what other people will think. Despite her mother's criticism, Sarah attends an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting where she meets Bobby, who is even younger than Sarah. What Bobby tells the group resonates with Sarah. She recognises herself in what Bobby says, such as the lying to other people as well as to oneself. During her family therapy sessions, Sarah expresses a desire for her family to be complete once again and for her parents to stop fighting. When Matt reveals that he is unable to have full custody of Sarah because of the nature of his job, Sarah once again feels the irresistible urge to drink. She is unable to purchase liquor because of her young age. She then asks a group of rough-looking teenagers to purchase a fifth of vodka for her. Sarah attempts to seal the bargain by inviting the youths to do anything that they would like to Sarah. They oblige, but tease her by devouring most of the bottle themselves. After she devours a bottle of vodka, she decides to take Daisy for a ride. Sarah's actions have fatal consequences for Daisy. Sarah spends time in a hospital, where she expresses extreme remorse for the way she has acted. She does not understand why she has been placed in a world where the only feelings she possesses are rotten and dismay. Sarah realises how much she has loved when not only her Mother and Father are willing to assist, but also her friends whom she has met when she attended the Alcoholics Anonymous meeting.Chris McCormick  is a highly paid fashion model whose image serves as the driving force of the ad campaign for a popular brand of lipstick and can be seen in magazines and on billboards all around the world. Gordon Stuart , a part-time composer and full-time music teacher, eagerly accepts Chris’s 13-year-old sister Kathy’s  invitation to come to a secluded beachside photo shoot, so Chris can listen to some of his music. But Chris is too busy to give any of her time to Gordon and suggests that they meet another day at the apartment she shares with Kathy. Gordon agrees and shows up at the apartment at the date and time that she mentioned. Even though Chris has clearly forgotten about the invitation, she lets him in and politely sits down as he plays her a tape of one of his compositions. What she hears is not easy on her ears, but she smiles as it plays and pretends to appreciate it until a phone call from her lover, Steve Edison , thankfully interrupts them and allows her to escape to her room, away from the noise and the very creepy Gordon. As Chris talks to Steve, Gordon begins to fume at the thought of Chris’ obvious rejection. His hurt soon turns to anger and he enters her room and smashes a picture of her brother Martin , a priest, before throwing himself on top of her. During Chris's struggle to fight him off, Gordon slams her head against one of her bedposts and screams at her to show him where she keeps the lipstick that her face sells to the public. When she tells him it's in her bathroom, he takes her in there and smears it across her face, then forces her to perform fellatio on him to leave the traces of the lipstick on his genitalia. Returning her to her bed, he ties her down with silk scarves, and anally rapes her to the accompaniment of his discordant compositions. Near the end of the ordeal, Kathy returns home from school and walks in on Chris and Gordon, who Kathy has a crush on, together in bed -- hurt and embarrassed, Kathy runs out before they see her, and before she can tell what's really going on. Chris hears her leave, and asks Gordon to untie her. He gets up and suggests calling Kathy in to join them and “Have some fun,” but he instead cuts Chris free and leaves. Chris gets up, finds Kathy, and after telling her what really happened, Chris calls the police. Gordon is arrested, but as Chris learns from Carla Bondi , the prosecutor assigned to handle the case, Gordon's conviction is hardly a sure thing. Only two out of 100 rapists serve any jail time, and only 10,000 out of the 50,000 rapes that occur each year in California are reported to the police. If Chris wants justice, she’ll have to testify, and that could mean subjecting herself to a kind of abuse as terrible as the rape itself. Despite Steve’s fears of what a trial could do to her career, Chris agrees to testify passionately, informing everyone in the room that “I want him to die in jail! I want them to do it to him in jail!” Unfortunately for Chris, Carla’s worst fears are all realized. Gordon's attorney argues that the sex was consensual, and that its roughness was the result of Chris's own twisted desires and not Gordon's. He also suggests that even if Gordon acted without her consent, she provoked him by appearing naked in front of him at the photo shoot where they first met, and by the inherent sensuality of the photographs from which she makes her living. To Chris's enormous shock, the jury buys that logic and votes to acquit. Gordon walks out of the courthouse a free man. Not long after that, Chris learns that Steve, who works for the cosmetics company she poses for, has decided to “cool down” their ad campaign, meaning that she's been abandoned by Steve, and is soon going to be out of work. Not knowing what else to do, Chris decides to move to Colorado with Kathy as soon she finishes what is to be her last photo shoot. But by a terrible coincidence, Kathy’s old school is using the same building Chris’s shoot is in to rehearse the new ballet being orchestrated by Gordon. As Chris poses in a red sequined gown, Kathy runs into Gordon, who -- despite her protestations to the contrary -- a part of her still believes is innocent of what Chris accused him of. Kathy soon learns, however, that Chris wasn’t lying when Gordon’s intentions become sinister, and he starts chasing her throughout the nearly abandoned building. Eventually, he catches her, starts tearing at her clothes and rapes her. When Gordon is done with her, Kathy stumbles to the photo shoot and tells Chris what happened. Knowing she absolutely cannot trust the system to do what's right, Chris -- still wearing the red gown -- runs outside to her vehicle and grabs a pump-action shotgun that she had intended to take to Colorado with her. Chris spots Gordon driving his car in the parking lot, and shoots at it. Gordon is hit by a bullet. He tries running Chris over, but the car swirls and overturns on its side. With difficulty, Gordon climbs out of the car, and Chris shoots him in his chest, shoulder and stomach. Gordon falls out of the car. Chris comes near to the place where Gordon is writhing in pain. Convulsing, he tries hard getting up, but Chris shoots him between his legs, killing him instantly. Even after his death, Chris keeps shooting, while being haunted by the dirty memories of her ugly rape. Within seconds, the police arrive and arrest Chris. Later, Carla Bondi speaks to a jury, telling them that their acquittal of the devillish Gordon earlier resulted in Chris losing faith in the law and in order for the Los Angeles department of justice to not appear appallingly incompetent they have to acquit Chris. The Jury ultimately finds Chris not guilty.A cynical and gothic look at Hollywood during the late 1930s, Day of the Locust tells the tales of residents of the dilapidated San Bernardino Arms: Faye Greener, a trashy aspiring actress with limited talent, and her father Harry, a washed-up vaudevillian reduced to working as a door-to-door salesman; sexually repressed accountant Homer Simpson, who desperately loves Faye, and East Coast WASP Tod Hackett, an aspiring artist employed by the production department of a major studio, who also fancies Faye. There are unusual and bizarrely disturbing images: a middle-aged man sits in an untended garden staring at a large lizard that stares back; a young woman is transported into the film she's watching and finds herself portraying a harem girl in old Baghdad; a dwarf tenderly caresses a rooster, bleeding and dazed from a cock-fight,and then tosses it back into the ring to its death; an androgynous child beckons to a man through a window and performs a grotesque imitation of Mae West. These brief vignettes do little to advance the basic plot, but they serve to shape the audience's understanding of the era depicted as one of Hollywood sleaziness and wholesale alienation. Spectacle fills the screen—a set of the Waterloo battlefield collapses on the extras during the making of the film within the film. In the film's climax, an enraged Homer brutally tramples a child near a Grauman's Chinese Theater as crowds gather for the premiere of a new film. Seeing this, the enraged crowd swarms over and kills Homer. Almost immediately, the entire crowd is driven to riot, turning on itself, smashing store windows, overturning cars, trampling each other to death and turning the already packed street into a war zone. Severely injured, a delirious Tod imagines some of the mob take on the appearance of the characters in his own grotesque painting The Burning of Los Angeles.Laura Mars  is a glamorous fashion photographer who specializes in stylized violence. Amid controversy over whether her photographs glorify violence and are demeaning to women, Laura begins seeing, in first person through the eyes of the killer, real-time visions of the murders of her friends and colleagues. John Neville , the lieutenant in charge of the case, shows Laura unpublished police photographs of unsolved murders that very closely mirror Laura's fashion shoots. Laura's visions continue, including visions of the killer stalking her and continuing to murder those around her. In the interim, Laura and Neville inexplicably fall in love. The murders continue as Laura's various colleagues, acquaintances and past romantic interests come in and out of focus as potential suspects or victims, until a final confrontation between Laura and the killer occurs. At her apartment, Laura is affected by one last vision of the killer, who has now come for her. The killer attempts to break in through her front door, but Laura deadbolts it before he/she can gain entry. Upon hearing her distress, Neville  breaks through her balcony window. Neville then precedes to tell Laura they have caught the killer, a troubled colleague of hers named Tommy, and also begins detailing an elaborate explanation of Tommy's motivations and back story. Knowing Tommy well, Laura recognizes this as a lie and that Neville himself is, in fact, the killer. As Neville details more of his own story, it is implied that he may have multiple personalities. Because of this, and his love for her, he cannot bring himself to murder her and instead asks that she end his life. She shoots him dead, calling the police as we close in on her eyes-- the eyes of Laura Mars.A man in a car crash experiences the events of his life through flashbacks, with particular emphasis on his relationships with his wife and his lover.Rosalind McCarthy is a spoiled 16-year-old who returns home to New York from boarding school for the holidays. She confides to a friend, Andy, that she might be pregnant. They seek out the advice of Dr. Katchaturian, a pharmacist. Rosalind naively tries to induce a miscarriage by jumping, drinking castor oil, even douching with soda pop. Resigned to an abortion before a family vacation in Mexico, she needs money. Andy tries to get some from the baby's father, Rick, a gigolo with whom Rosalind had a one-night stand. He fails, so he pawns a chemistry set, only to be mugged and robbed on the way home. In desperation, Andy goes to Rosalind's father, pretending he needs to borrow money for someone he has impregnated. Frank McCarthy obliges, but when he concludes that Rosalind is the one who needs the abortion, he orders Andy never to return to their house. Dr. Hargrave performs the abortion, after which Rosalind cavalierly offers Andy sex as her way of a thank-you.Dave Garver  is a KRML radio jockey who broadcasts nightly from his studio in Carmel-by-the-Sea, California, often incorporating poetry into his program. One night, he visits his favorite bar and, seemingly by coincidence, meets a woman named Evelyn Draper . Dave offers to drive Evelyn home and she accepts; once there, she reveals to him that their meeting was not coincidental; she deliberately sought him out after hearing him mention his favorite bar on his radio show. He guesses that she is a frequent caller who always requests the jazz standard "Misty"; Evelyn confirms this and then coerces a clearly uncomfortable Dave into having sex with her. From that point on, Evelyn prominently displays her borderline personality disorderFatal Attraction syndrome and begins showing up at Dave's house uninvited. She frequently alternates between being in love with him and hating him. Despite the short duration of their affair, she thinks that he loved her and feels abandoned and lonely. She throws jealous temper tantrums, attempts suicide in his home, and destroys his carefully constructed career move into management. After Dave rejects her one time too many, Evelyn lets herself into his home when he is out. His housekeeper walks in to find her maniacally vandalizing his possessions; Evelyn viciously attacks her with a knife and is subsequently committed to a psychiatric hospital. For a time, all appears well; Dave has successfully rekindled his relationship with his ex-girlfriend, Tobie Williams , and Evelyn is nowhere to be seen. One night, however, Evelyn calls Dave to tell him that she has been released and is moving to Hawaii; she quotes Edgar Allan Poe's "Annabel Lee" in reference to her obsessive affection for him. Later, while Dave is asleep, she unsuccessfully attacks him in his home with a butcher knife and then flees. Dave contacts the police, who begin to search for her. The next day, Dave warns Tobie to stay away from him until Evelyn is caught; she reluctantly agrees to stay at home with her new roommate, a girl named Annabel. That night, Tobie realizes that Annabel is Evelyn in disguise when she notices the scars from Evelyn's suicide attempt. Evelyn takes Tobie hostage and murders Sgt. McCallum , who had come to check on the two women. Meanwhile at the radio station, Dave makes the connection between Tobie's roommate Annabel and the quote from "Annabel Lee" that Evelyn had earlier recited. Evelyn calls and mockingly tells him that she and Tobie are waiting for him; he switches from a live show to a tape and rushes to confront her. Arriving at his house, he finds Tobie bound and gagged. Evelyn attacks him again with the butcher knife & he tries to steal the knife away from her. He eventually punches her in the face, knocking her out a window and down a cliff. Dave and Tobie look down at Evelyn's battered body as Dave's voice on the taped radio show dedicates "Misty" to Evelyn one final time.Sally Hardesty  and her paraplegic brother, Franklin , travel with three friends, Jerry , Kirk , and Pam , to visit the grave of the Hardestys' grandfather to investigate reports of vandalism and grave robbing. Afterwards, they decide to visit an old Hardesty family homestead. Along the way they pick up a hitchhiker  who slashes both himself and Franklin with a straight razor before the group forces him out of the van. They stop at a gas station to refuel, but the proprietor  tells them that the pumps are empty. They continue towards the homestead, intending to return to the gas station once the fuel has been delivered. When they arrive, Franklin tells Kirk and Pam about a local swimming hole and the couple head off to find it. Instead they stumble upon a nearby house. Kirk calls out, asking for gas, while Pam waits on the front steps. After Kirk receives no answer, he discovers that the door is unlocked and enters the house, where Leatherface  appears and kills him. Pam enters soon after and finds the house filled with furniture made from human bones. She attempts to flee, but Leatherface catches her and impales her on a meathook. Jerry heads out to look for Pam and Kirk at sunset. He finds the couple's blanket outside the nearby house. He investigates and finds Pam, who is still alive, inside a freezer. Before he can react, Leatherface kills him and stuffs Pam back into the freezer. With darkness falling, Sally and Franklin set out to find their friends. As they near the neighboring house and call out, Leatherface lunges from the darkness and kills Franklin with a chainsaw. Sally heads toward the house and finds the desiccated remains of an elderly couple in an upstairs room. She escapes from Leatherface by jumping through a second-floor window and flees to the gas station. Leatherface disappears into the night. The proprietor calms her with offers of help, but then ties her up and forces her into his truck. He drives to the house, arriving at the same time as the hitchhiker, who turns out to be Leatherface's younger brother. When the pair bring Sally inside, the hitchhiker recognizes her and taunts her. The men torment the bound and gagged Sally while Leatherface, now dressed as a woman, serves dinner. Leatherface and the hitchhiker bring an old man, "Grandpa" , from upstairs to share the meal. During the night they decide Sally should be killed by "Grandpa". He tries to hit her with a hammer, but is too weak. In the ensuing confusion, she breaks free, leaps through a window, and escapes to the road. Leatherface and the hitchhiker give chase, but the latter is run down and killed by a passing semi-trailer truck. Armed with his chainsaw, Leatherface attacks the truck when the driver stops to help. The driver hits him in the face with a large wrench. Sally escapes in the back of a passing pickup truck as Leatherface waves the chainsaw above his head in frustration.In the first years of the 1920s, a sickly and dying Count Dracula , who as a vampire must drink virgin blood to survive, travels from Transylvania to Italy, following his servant Anton's  plan and thinking he will be more likely to find a virgin in a Catholic country. At the same time, all of Dracula's family has vanished because of two reasons, the lack of virgins in their hometown and how the family's reputation prevents any common family from choosing to bring women to the renowned castle. Shortly after arriving to Italy, Dracula befriends Marchese di Fiore , an impecunious Italian landowner who, with a lavish estate falling into decline, is willing to marry off one of his four daughters to the wealthy aristocrat. Of di Fiore's four daughters, two regularly enjoy the sexual services of Mario, the estate handyman , a proud peasant and staunch Marxist who believes that the socialist revolution will happen soon in his country. The youngest and eldest daughters are virgins, but the latter is thought too plain to be offered for marriage, and is past her prime, and the youngest is only 14 years old . Dracula obtains assurances that all the daughters are virgins and drinks the blood of the two who are considered marriageable. However, their tainted blood reveals him the truth and makes him even more weaker. Nevertheless, he is able to turn the two girls into his mental slaves. Soon after the Marchese Di Fiore travels out of Italy to pay his great debts, Mario discovers that Dracula is a vampire and what he has done to the Di Fiore sisters. When he realizes the danger Dracula poses to the youngest daughter, he rapes her to achieve her protection. Mario warns Di Fiore's wife, La Marchesa Di Fiore , about Dracula's plan. Meanwhile Dracula has drunk the blood of the eldest daughter, turning her into a vampire and regaining strength. La Marchesa confronts and is stabbed by Anton, whom she shoots and kills before dying. Mario dismembers Dracula with an axe and kills him and the eldest of the Di Fiore's with a stake, becoming the De facto master and manager of the estate.Going from a lawyer to a writer, and then to a film director, is the career path on which we find Leo Harrigan . But Leo has problems as well, such as being hopelessly smitten with his leading lady, who chooses to grab his attentions by getting herself engaged to his vulgar and ignorant leading man, Buck Greenaway .Set during the Civil Rights Movement, Charlie Roberts is a militant African American attorney from New York City falsely accused of murder during a demonstration in rural Texas. Escaping from his captors, Charlie breaks into a vacant coastal vacation home, where he encounters white Marlene Chambers, an uneducated, prejudiced, unwed pregnant teenager who has been shunned by her father and boyfriend due to her pregnancy, and who sought refuge in the vacant home a few weeks before Charlie arrives. Realizing their survival depends upon their willingness to help each other, their relationship, at first defined by mutual contempt, prejudice, and hostility, slowly evolves into a touching friendship.On Christmas Eve 1971 in Manhattan's Greenwich Village, a group of gay men and women meet at the Blue Jay Bar to talk about their lives and relationships.{{stub-section}} Dr. Johnson  lives in bliss with his beautiful wife  until his unorthodox experiments with human embryos causes a medical committee to reject his findings and orders him to discontinue his work. The unstable doctor does the only sensible thing: slashes his wrists in the bathroom. Devastated, his wife vows to seduce and kill the woman and three men "responsible" for the suicide.Set during World War I, it centers on Lili Smith , a popular British music hall performer who is regarded as a femme fatale. She is actually a German spy, and the uncle she dotes upon is really Colonel Kurt Von Ruger , a fellow spy and her contact with the German military. In hopes of gaining valuable information, Lili begins using her feminine wiles on Major William Larrabee , a top American pilot. However, Lili soon falls in love with Larrabee and cannot find the courage to betray him. When Larrabee discovers Lili's secret, he refuses to turn her in.The story is about a girl, Rachel Bryant , who lives with her wealthy family in a nice house in the hills of Northern California. After her mother's sister, brother-in-law, and housekeeper die in a horrible car crash, the couple's daughter, Julia  comes to live with them. Julia seems a little shy if anything, but as time goes on, she begins to put an alluring spell over everyone she meets, pulling all of Rachel's family and friends away from her. After finding some odd things that belong to Julia (including a human tooth and burnt hair from Rachel's dog Trickle , Rachel begins to suspect that her cousin may be a practitioner of witchcraft, and she's hell-bent on turning Rachel's life upside down. Her open disbelieved suspicions caused her to become an outcast in front of her family.Magnus Dens  lies asleep on a Bermuda beach, his hat shading his eyes from the sun. He is approached by a beautiful but mysterious woman , who kneels next to him and notices the coral necklace he is wearing. Removing his hat, she seems to recognize him, and gently caresses his face. Magnus dreams of his childhood, playing on the same beach. He finds a turtle egg in the sand, and calls to his friend Jennie to have a look. As they watch, the egg hatches. A few years later, Magnus and Jennie play with the rather large turtle. Magnus takes a shell and carves "J+M" inside a heart on the turtle's shell, while Jennie finishes making a coral necklace, which she places around Magnus's neck. Later, the young Magnus lies alone on the beach. He spots Jennie riding the turtle through the waves, heading out to sea. He calls to her, but she doesn't hear him as she and the turtle disappear beneath the water. That night, in his house on a cliff side overlooking the beach, Magnus's father, Lionel, checks on him in bed as a terrible storm rages and strange calls can be heard from the ocean. Something unseen approaches the house as Lionel descends into a cave beneath the house to continue an experiment in marine biology. The storm intensifies, blowing shingles off the roof and destroying part of the house. Lionel attempts to flee the unseen horror stalking him, but is knocked into the water. Magnus is pinned under the collapsing roof in his bedroom. Magnus awakens from his nightmare and groggily gathers his things. He sees a woman swimming in the ocean and looks at the remnants of his childhood home before he leaves to go into town. At the docks, Magnus spots his childhood friend Eric . Eric helps him on board a ship and asks where he's been. Magnus admits he's been drifting for a few years. Eric takes the boat out to sea and gets Magnus to help him lay a heavy deep-sea trawling net. Eric introduces Magnus to Dr. Paulus , whom Eric is working for to finish his degree in marine biology. Suddenly the boat lists violently to one side. They pull up the net to find it has been shredded by something very large and strong. That evening, the three men are joined by Eric's wife Doshan  for dinner at Dr. Paulus' house. He explains he and Eric are studying teratology, the study of unusual growth in animals. Dr. Paulus calls out to Delia  to hurry up with dinner. Magnus is intrigued by the necklace she wears, which resembles his own. After dinner, Paulus expresses his admiration for Magnus' father, whom he worked with, studying the Bermuda Triangle. Magnus tries to ask about the night his father died, but Paulus drifts off to sleep at the table. Stepping outside, Magnus again sees the mysterious woman swimming by the boat. He jumps in the water to follow her, but is quickly overcome underwater. He is saved and revived on the beach by the woman, whom he doesn't recognize. She returns to the ocean, telling him her name - Jennie Haniver. Describing the incident to Paulus provokes amusement. He explains to Magnus that a "Jennie Haniver" is a local icon, made of cured and dried sea life, "sold to the gullible and superstitious for centuries." Angered, Magnus steps outside, where Delia tells him of the legend of Jennie Haniver. Appearing sometimes as a young girl and sometimes as a grown woman, Jennie only appears to men about to drown. Two centuries ago, she was returning to the mainland when her ship was caught in a storm. Fearing for her life, Jennie prayed for salvation to "the one below", the devil that resides in the Bermuda Triangle. Pleading that she was too young and beautiful to die, she asked that the rest of the crew be allowed to drown if she could be saved. A voice in her head told her to dive into the sea and she would be preserved. Magnus becomes upset at what he describes as a stupid ghost story and runs off. The next morning, the police bring in Eric to examine enormous tracks on the beach. He measures them as being forty feet across. Magnus goes down to the beach and meets Jennie. Finally remembering her as his young playmate, he takes her to his father's wrecked house. He tells her some of his memories from childhood, while she describes the quadrilles her father would hold in their great hall. Eric calls Magnus away, despite Jennie's requests for him to stay with her. They go out on the boat with Dr. Paulus and discuss the prints on the beach and Paulus' belief they were caused by a giant turtle. Again, the boat lurches uncontrollably. Eric is forced to cut the cable to the trawling net before the boat capsizes. In the evening, Magnus confronts Dr. Paulus about his father's death. Paulus explains Lionel was conducting tests regarding mutation in sea life when he was attacked and apparently eaten. Magnus asks him if he remembers the turtle from his childhood, and describes how he carved initials in the shell, for himself and Jennie. Paulus is dismayed. Magnus awakens to Eric and Dr. Paulus arguing over pursuing the giant turtle. Eric wants to use the Hora, a harpoon-firing bazooka. Paulus is aghast at the idea and withdraws his support for the expedition. Despite this, Eric collects Magnus and heads out in the boat. After some trawling, they again find something dragging on the line. Taking a small harpoon gun, Eric dives to try to save the net. He shoots at a form he could see only vaguely, which turns out to be Jennie. Eric and Magnus resume trawling. Magnus tells Eric he had been with Jennie the night before on the beach, and how she was his friend from when he was young. Eric doesn't remember her, and dismisses her as an imaginary friend. The trawl lines finally catch the turtle, which is so large it begins to tear through the net. Eric blasts it with the Hora, and allows it to run out the line, waiting for it to resurface. After sundown, the boat's power mysteriously gives out, and the compass spins crazily. Magnus leaves the boat's cabin and finds Jennie has boarded the ship. She begs him to free the turtle, nebulously saying she made a promise long ago she'll forever regret. They embrace, Magnus not noticing the gaping wound in her side from Eric's harpoon. At Doshan's insistence, Dr. Paulus boards a helicopter to fly out to the boat. Upon arriving, he observes a huge shape underwater near the boat. The turtle surfaces, swimming quickly towards the helicopter, then leaping out of the water, sending the helicopter crashing into the ocean. Eric sees the crash and rushes out onto the deck, to be confronted by Jennie. To his horror, her eyes glow an eerie green, just as the turtle surfaces under the boat, capsizing it. Magnus climbs aboard the lifeboat amidst the wreckage and desperately tries to help Eric on board, but he is entangled in the line from the Hora. The turtle surfaces, its eyes glowing exactly like Jennie's, before it dives down into the depths, dragging Eric helplessly behind. Magnus manages to steer the lifeboat to shore, but does not make it far along the beach before he collapses unconscious. Jennie approaches him, kissing him sadly before she returns to the ocean for the last time. Doshan approaches Magnus in the graveyard where his parents are buried and expresses her horror at the losses of her husband and Dr. Paulus. Magnus tells her he is leaving Bermuda and wants nothing to do with the sea ever again. As he walks away, he does not notice the statue of Jennie on her gravestone, inscribed, "Jennie Haniver, 1701-, Lost at Sea". On the ferry leaving Bermuda, Magnus removes the necklace Jennie had given him and sadly throws it into the sea. It sinks past the giant turtle, which is shown as still having the initials Magnus inscribed in its shell so many years ago.From Here to Obscurity: Bermuda DepthsMary  is a disillusioned English banker’s wife who meets a troubled Italian immigrant, Bruno .<ref name1982|firstTrader Witcombe|titleOxford University Press}} Mary is captivated by Bruno and they set off on a voyage together. In the course of their voyage, they meet a series of society's dropouts; the unemployed, drug addicts, drag queens, alcoholics and anarchists. They both learn a great deal about life from these misfits.Dropout Tinto Brass Collection. Retrieved on August 27Mytyl and her brother Tyltyl are peasant children who are led on a quest for the Blue Bird of Happiness by the Queen of Light, who gives them a hat with a magic diamond that allows them to call forth the souls of all things, both living and inanimate. On their journey, they are accompanied by the human personifications of a dog, a cat, water, sugar, bread, light, fire, and the like. They visit the kingdoms of the past and future and the queendoms of night and luxury, at each place absorbing more wisdom. Eventually they discover the blue bird they've been seeking has been in their own backyard all along.{{plot}} Wilby Daniels  is now a successful attorney who is married to Betty , and they have a son named Brian . Returning to the town of Medfield from a vacation, the family discovers that they have been robbed of almost all their possessions and Wilby blames the local district attorney John Slade , who is reputed to have connections with organized crime, particularly with warehouse owner Edward "Fast Eddie" Roshak . After being robbed a second time later that night , Wilby vows to run for district attorney to make his town safe again. Meanwhile, the two thugs who had robbed the Daniels', Freddie  and Dip , observe the Borgia ring at the local museum and assume it might fetch a large sum so they steal it. The ugly ring with a scarab on it can only be pawned off to local bumbling ice cream salesman Tim, who is the owner of a large Old English Sheepdog named Elwood. Tim figures he will give the ring to his girlfriend Katrinka, a local roller derby star and pastry assistant. While dressing himself in preparation for a live television broadcast to announce his candidacy, Wilby hears a report of the Borgia ring being stolen. He freezes in terror, then reveals his former shape-shifting secret to his wife who is certain his story cannot be true; he warns her that if the inscription on the ring  is spoken aloud he will turn into a shaggy dog. Soon afterwards, Wilby is moments before his live television debut as Tim discovers the inscription on the ring and reads it aloud, causing Elwood to disappear &ndash; only to reappear moments later as he takes over Wilby’s body. Moments before the cameras roll, Brian notices that shaggy hair is growing all over his father who reacts in horror as he realizes he is turning into a dog. He rushes from the house and cameras in his dog form and briefly confounds Tim who can’t understand why his dog Elwood suddenly can speak. The spell wears off and Wilby is now in his human form again and determined to find the ring as he faces the prospect of being a candidate in the public eye who never knows when he might turn into a dog. Soon, Wilby’s fears come true as Katrinka receives the ring and once again the inscription is read, just as Wilby is giving a public address at a ladies garden club . Betty warns him of his shaggy condition a split-second before his canine form would become apparent to all gathered and creates a near riot while trying to escape. Once again, Tim finds Wilby in Elwood’s form and in convinced that his talking dog could make millions; when Tim wanders off momentarily Wilby returns to his human form, leaving a silent Elwood to confound Tim further. Meanwhile, an agent  of Wilby’s rival John Slade gets suspicious as to why Wilby keeps disappearing. Desperate to find the ring, the hunt leads to Katrinka who seems to have lost it in a vat of cherry pie filling intended for a John Slade fundraiser. Offering a reward to whoever finds the ring Katrinka and her colleagues go into a mad dash to find it, eventually escalating into a large-scale pie fight. In the pandemonium, the ring once again finds itself in the hands of the local thugs who this time attempt to pass it off to an undercover police detective. Once again in the hands of the museum, the inscription is read aloud as a point of reference; in the middle of the police station, Wilby  finds himself turning into Elwood once again. This time, Slade’s agent puts two and two together when he overhears the museum’s curator explaining the ring’s reputed power, and how his predecessor  told him a story of a young man turned into a sheepdog years ago. Slade is informed of this weakness in his rival, is dubious at first and then invites Wilby to his office to test out the theory. Slade invites Wilby to his office and advises him to withdraw his campaign. Wilby refuses and tells Slade that when he is elected, he will have him investigated regarding his criminal connections. Slade then reveals he has his ring. With a reading of the inscription, Slade is thrilled to see Wilby Daniels turn into a shaggy dog right before his eyes and makes a call to the local pound. Wilby escapes hearing Slade repeat the inscription several times, which guarantees that the spell will not wear off and he will be trapped in a dog’s form for some time to come. Wilby eventually disguises himself as a female roller-derby competitor to elude Slade, who as district attorney has the entire police force and animal control at his disposal. Eventually, Wilby is caught and taken to the local dog pound where he is able to understand the other dogs, who band together to help him escape. With the help of Tim  and Brian, Wilby gets evidence that John Slade is connected to organized crime. Wilby and Tim trick Slade into showing up at Roshak's warehouse and Wilby uses a tape recorder to collect information that confirms Slade's wrongdoings. With the help of his dog friends from the pound, he also manages to retrieve the ring from John Slade, who unfortunately has read the inscription so many times aloud that the curse has now passed onto him as he transforms into a bulldog. A happy ending for all as Wilby gets elected district attorney, Slade is supposedly jailed  and Tim gets engaged to Katrinka; together they adopt Wilby’s dog friends from the pound.The film opens with a montage of images of Manhattan accompanied by George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue. Isaac Davis  is introduced as a man writing a book about his love for New York City. He is a twice-divorced, 42-year-old television writer dealing with the women in his life who gives up his unfulfilling job as a comedy writer. He is dating Tracy , a 17-year-old girl attending the Dalton School. His best friend, Yale ([[Michael Murphy , married to Emily , is having an affair with Mary Wilkie ; her ex-husband and former teacher, Jeremiah , also appears. Isaac's ex-wife Jill  is writing a confessional book about their marriage. Jill has also since come out of the closet as a lesbian and lives with her female partner Connie . When Isaac meets Mary, her cultural snobbery rubs him the wrong way. Isaac runs into her again at an Equal Rights Amendment fund-raising event at the Museum of Modern Art and accompanies her on a cab ride home. They chat until sunrise in a sequence that culminates in the iconic shot of the Queensboro Bridge. In spite of a growing attraction to Mary, Isaac continues his relationship with Tracy. But he emphasizes that theirs can't be a serious relationship and encourages the girl to go to London to study acting. In another iconic scene, at Tracy's request, they go on a carriage ride through Central Park. After Yale breaks up with Mary, he suggests Isaac ask her out. Isaac does, always having felt that Tracy was too young for him. Isaac breaks up with Tracy, much to her dismay, and before long Mary has virtually moved into his apartment. Emily is curious about Isaac's new girlfriend, and after several meetings between the two couples, including one where Emily reads out portions of Jill's new book about her marriage with Isaac, Yale leaves Emily to resume his relationship with Mary. A betrayed Isaac confronts Yale at the college where he teaches, and Yale argues that he found Mary first. Isaac responds by discussing Yale's extramarital affairs with Emily, but she thinks Isaac introduced Mary to Yale. In the denouement, Isaac lies on his sofa, musing into a tape recorder about the things that make "life worth living"—the final item, after which he sets down the microphone, is "Tracy's face." He leaves his apartment and sets out on foot for Tracy's. He arrives at the lobby of her family's apartment just as she is leaving for London. He says that she doesn't have to go and that he doesn't want "that special thing" about her to change. She replies that the plans have already been made and reassures him that "Not everybody gets corrupted" before saying "You've got to have faith in people". He gives her a slight smile segueing into final shots of the skyline with some bars of Rhapsody in Blue playing again. An instrumental version of "Embraceable You" plays over the credits.A shopping-bag lady, Annie Lewis , is viewed as a homeless nobody by two thoughtless teenage girls. After Annie is picked up by the police due to a misunderstanding, one of the girls  learns to see her as a human being after looking through Annie's possessions . As a result Emily is more compassionate towards her grandmother, with whom she lives.The Shopping Bag Lady. Internet Archive. Retrieved 2011-03-08.Frédéric , a young, successful lawyer, is happily married to Hélène , an English teacher, and father to one child, with another on the way. Still, something eats away at him. While going through his day, Frédéric begins to ponder the times before he was married, when he was free to be with any woman he wanted and could feel the deep satisfaction of anticipation while he chased them. At one point in the film, he has an elaborate fantasy where he possesses a magical amulet that causes all women to bow to his will . These thoughts do not distress Frédéric though, as he sees these ideas as a reflection of how true his love to his wife is. One day, an old friend shows up suddenly at Frédéric's office. Chloé ([[Zouzou  was the girlfriend of an old friend, a woman who caused his friend a great deal of grief. At first he believes she only wants something from him, but over time, as she tries a series of jobs to attempt some type of solidity in her life, the two begin spending afternoons together, talking of many things Frédéric finds himself unable to talk to his wife about. Eventually, Chloé confesses that while she does not desire marriage she would like to have a child, and wants the child to be from him. In a minor state of mental anguish, Frédéric ponders the paths of staying with a wife that he loves greatly or going with a woman for whom he feels a strange deep passion. In the moments before it seems Frédéric will consummate his feelings for Chloé he flees back to his wife, leaving Chloé sprawled on her bed waiting for him. It is not shown what happens to Chloé, but upon Frédéric's return to Hélène the tears that spill from her show that something definite yet not altogether dire has changed between the two of them.Madame von Bohlen , a strong-willed woman and matriarch of her family, not only runs her family wine business, but she also has a mysterious power; she has psychic control over a swarm of "killer bees" that reside in her vineyard.Like many British sex comedies of the 1970s the narrative involves a male protagonist who gets into compromising situations with a succession of women. The optimistic and inept Timothy Lea is freshly employed by his brother-in-law Sid as a window cleaner. With Sid an impending father to be, he looks to Timmy to fully 'satisfy' his customers, little realising that Timmy's accident prone ways often stretch to his sex life with his clients. Timmy bed hops from unsatisfied housewives to even a lesbian love tryst, all the while with his main eye on successful police woman, Elizabeth Radlett, who will have none of Timmy's sexual advances. He proposes as a result, much to his family's upset, unaware that Timmy's usual run of luck will affect the outcome!Like the play, the film is divided into three acts, all set in Suite 719 of New York City's Plaza Hotel. The first focuses on not-so-blissfully wedded couple Sam and Karen Nash, who are revisiting their honeymoon suite in an attempt - by Karen - to bring the love back into their marriage. Her plan backfires and the two become embroiled in a heated argument about whether or not Sam is having an affair with his secretary Miss McCormack. Sam eventually walks out, allegedly to attend to urgent business, and Karen is left to reflect on how much things have changed since they were newlyweds. The second act involves a meeting between Hollywood movie producer Jesse Kiplinger and his old flame, suburban housewife Muriel Tate. Muriel - aware of his reputation as a smooth-talking ladies' man - has come to the hotel for nothing more than a chat between old friends, promising herself she will not stay too long. Jesse, however, has other plans in mind and repeatedly attempts to seduce her. The third act revolves around married couple Roy and Norma Hubley on the wedding day of their daughter Mimsey, who has locked herself in the suite's bathroom and stubbornly refuses to come out. The segment is filled with increasingly outrageous slapstick moments depicting her parents' frantic attempts to cajole her into attending her wedding while the gathered guests await the trio's arrival downstairs.Jane  and Cathy  are two young nurses from London, taking a cycling holiday in rural France. When they stop at a busy cafe, Jane wants to plan their route, but Cathy is more interested in a handsome man , whom she spies drinking alone at the next table. Later, as Jane and Cathy make their way along a quiet country road, the man, who rides a Lambretta scooter, overtakes them, and they pass him a few minutes later, as he rests by a cemetery gate. Cathy becomes intrigued by him. Stopping for a rest, Cathy decides she wants to sunbathe for a while, but Jane wants to push on. Eventually they argue, and Jane decides to carry on alone. A short while later, at a lonely café, the owner tries to tell Jane, in poor English, that the area has a bad reputation. She begins to reconsider her decision, and heads back to the spot where she left Cathy earlier, unaware that something has already happened. Unable to find her friend, and increasingly concerned about the presence of the scooter rider, Jane decides to look for the local police officer . Jane becomes convinced that the moped driver, who is called Paul, and who says he is a plain-clothes detective, is in fact Cathy's attacker. She escapes from him - in the process discovering Cathy's dead body - and re-encounters the policeman, who is then revealed as Cathy's actual murderer. He attacks Jane but is stopped by Paul, who knocks him unconscious.It is the story of a cruel man who abandons his wife and daughter and goes to work in a circus around the country .. Years later he meets his daughter who is now a rambling gypsy...A recently married young couple, Stefan  and Valerie , are on their honeymoon. They check into a grand hotel on the Ostend seafront in Belgium, intending to catch the cross-channel ferry to England, though Stefan seems oddly unenthused at the prospect of introducing his new bride to his mother. It is off-season, so the couple are alone in the hotel. Alone, that is, until the sun sets and a mysterious Hungarian countess, Elizabeth Báthory  arrives in a vintage Bristol driven by her 'secretary' Ilona . The middle-aged concierge at the hotel swears that he saw the Countess at the same hotel when he was a little boy. The countess quickly becomes obsessed with the newlyweds, and the resulting interaction of the four people leads to sadism and murder. Ilona, Stefan, then the Countess all die, leaving Valerie, now transformed into a creature similar to the Countess, stalking new victims.On a one-week Mediterranean pleasure cruise aboard the yacht of movie producer Clinton Greene , the guests include actress Alice Wood , her talent-manager husband Anthony , talent agent Christine , screenwriter Tom Parkman , Tom's wife Lee , and film director Philip Dexter . The trip is, in fact, a reunion. With the exception of Lee, all were together at Clinton's home one year before, on the night a hit-and-run accident resulted in the death of Clinton's wife, gossip columnist Sheila Greene . Once the cruise is under way, Clinton, a parlor game enthusiast, informs everyone that the week's entertainment will consist of "The Sheila Greene Memorial Gossip Game." The six guests are each assigned an index card containing a secret—or, in Clinton's words, "a pretend piece of gossip" -- that must be kept hidden from the others. The object of the game is to discover everyone else's secret while protecting one's own. Each night the yacht anchors at a different Mediterranean port city, where one of the six secrets is disclosed to the entire group. The guests are given a clue, then sent ashore to find the proof of who among them holds the card bearing that night's secret. The game for that night ends when the actual holder of the subject secret discovers the proof. Anyone who has not yet solved the clue receives no points on Clinton's scoreboard for that round. Following the revelation of the first card, "YOU are a SHOPLIFTER," suspicion begins that each guest's card does not contain "pretend" gossip but in fact an actual, embarrassing secret. When Clinton does not return from the second evening's installment of the game—where the second card was revealed to be "YOU are a HOMOSEXUAL" -- the guests return ashore and discover Clinton's corpse. Before contacting authorities, one reveals that his card reads, "YOU are a HIT-AND-RUN KILLER." This begins a macabre game of musical chairs of sorts, with guests jousting over who lays claim to which dirty little secret. There is an increasingly growing paranoia over the obvious implication that both Sheila and Clinton were killed by somebody on this yacht. The game being played is actually just a portion of a more elaborate puzzle created by Clinton, including additional clues that are ever-present and the suggestion that any guest could win the game without even leaving the yacht. "If you're smart enough," Clinton taunts. Although his own diabolical game did not end as Clinton planned, characters continue to discover these clues, resulting in another death on board ship and the identity of which guest killed the host.The film is set in Paterson, New Jersey in the early 1960s. Catherine Spages ([[Linda Miller  is visiting Father Tom  with her two daughters, who both attend St. Michael's Parish Girls' School: 9-year-old Karen  and 12-year-old Alice . Karen is preparing for her First Communion and Father Tom gives her his mother's crucifix as a gift. A jealous Alice puts on a creepy, translucent grinning mask, frightening Mrs. Tredoni , Father Tom's housekeeper. Later, Alice steals Karen's porcelain doll and lures her into an abandoned building with it. She jumps out and scares Karen with the grinning mask and locks her in a room. When she lets her out she tells her that if anyone finds out, she'll never see the doll again. On the day of the First Communion, Karen is attacked and strangled to death, by a person in a translucent mask and yellow raincoat, in a back room as the children enter the front of the church. Her body is dragged away by her right arm and dumped into a bench compartment, which is set on fire with a candle, but not before ripping the crucifix from her neck. Smoke begins to fill the church. Meanwhile, Alice enters the church, carrying her shiny yellow raincoat. She kneels in Karen's place to receive communion when a scream is heard. A curious nun had entered the back room where the confessionals are located, and found Karen's body. People run in, horrified. Catherine is inconsolable. After Karen's funeral, Catherine's ex-husband Dominick "Dom" Spages  arrives in town to help track down the killer. Catherine's sister, Annie DeLorenze , moves in to help Catherine through her grief, but it is soon evident that Alice and Annie despise each other. Catherine tells Alice to deliver a rent cheque to their landlord, Mr. Alphonso . After he fondles and tries to molest her, Alice kills one of his many cats and goes down to the basement, where she lights a candle and puts on her grinning mask. Descending the stairs to go shopping, Annie is viciously attacked; a raincoated figure in a grinning mask stabs her in the knee, foot, and thigh. At the hospital, Annie cries to her husband Jim  that Alice tried to kill her. Catherine says that Annie is only accusing Alice of murdering Karen to divert attention from her own daughter Angela , who was absent at the time of the murder, but Alice is sent to a mental institution for evaluation. At the hospital with Father Tom, Dom receives a phone call from Angela saying that she has Karen's crucifix and is in hiding. They agree to meet at an abandoned building. Dom follows the killer inside and up the stairs where the killer stabs him in the shoulder and he is knocked out by a brick and tied up. Dom awakens and sees that the killer is in fact Mrs. Tredoni. She killed Karen because she believes that "children pay for the sins of the parents." She reveals that she stabbed Annie by mistake, thinking it was Catherine, whom she considers a whore. She calls Dom and Catherine sinners because they had premarital sex. After Dom bites the crucifix off her neck, Mrs. Tredoni beats him with a rock and pushes him out of the window. After a pathologist , analyzes Dom's corpse, the crucifix is found and Alice is released. When Catherine and Alice go to church Mrs. Tredoni sneaks into the apartment building. As Mrs. Tredoni bangs on his apartment door, Mr. Alphonso wakes up screaming . He spots Mrs. Tredoni and mistakes her for Alice. She stabs him twice and runs downstairs. However, a policeman witnesses her running out of the back entrance without the mask on. Mrs. Tredoni goes to church, where the police are stationed outside. Father Tom denies her communion. Mrs. Tredoni points at Catherine, screams that he gave communion to a whore, and violently stabs Father Tom in the neck as the police rush in. The final shot features Alice walking out of the church with Mrs. Tredoni's shopping bag, looking at the bloodstained butcher knife, and glaring at the camera.Linda Blair (fresh off her success with [[The Exorcist  stars as a 14-year-old runaway who, after getting arrested one too many times, is sentenced to do time in a girls juvenile detention center, which doubles as a reform school for the girls. Blair's character, Christine Parker, comes from an abusive home. Her father  beat her on a regular basis, which caused Chris to run away many times. Her mother  is just as troubled as Chris is; unfeeling, sitting in her recliner, watching television and smoking cigarettes all day, and in denial to what her husband is doing. While the movie had a morality play tone, calling attention to the harsh conditions of juvenile detention centers, it also blamed society for Christine's downfall. All through the movie, Chris' social worker never realizes that her parents caused her to run away and the juvenile justice system focused all the blame and punishment on Christine for her bad behavior. With the exception of one dedicated counselor , the reform school personnel were mostly apathetic and allowed an unhealthy, destructive culture to fester in the school. By the very end of the movie, despite the counselor's best efforts to help Christine talk about her problems, she watched helplessly as an innocent, decent girl is transformed into a violent, pathological, manipulaive and cold person with no longer having any guilt or remorse for her actions.Handsome young artist Quentin Collins arrives at his newly-inherited estate of Collinwood with his beautiful wife Tracy. They meet the housekeeper, Carlotta Drake, and the caretaker, Gerard Stiles. The Collins' friends, Alex and Claire Jenkins, who are both novelists, move into a cottage on the estate. Quentin soon begins to be troubled by startling visions and haunting dreams about one of his ancestors, Charles Collins, and his ancestor's mistress Angelique, who had been hanged as a witch in a past century. Carlotta eventually reveals to Quentin that she is the reincarnation of Sarah Castle, a little girl who had lived at Collinwood over 150 years ago, and that Quentin himself is the reincarnation of Charles Collins. Charles had had an affair with Angelique, wife of his brother Gabriel, resulting in her being hanged and Charles being sealed alive in the family crypt with Angelique's corpse. On a trip to New York, the Jenkins discover a painting of Charles Collins, which bears an uncanny resemblance to Quentin. Convinced that their friends are in grave danger, the couple hurry home to Collinwood. They are attacked by the ghost of Angelique. Meanwhile, Quentin has become possessed by the spirit of Charles Collins and attempts to drown Tracy in a disused swimming pool on the estate. Alex and Claire arrive in time to revive her, but Quentin, having no memory of his actions, refuses to believe their wild tale. Carlotta and Gerard conspire to eliminate Quentin's loved ones. Quentin, seeing the scratches on his wrist where Tracy had tried to fend him off, realizes the truth of Alex's warning and rushes to rescue his friends. Gerard has managed to take Tracy prisoner , and Quentin fights with him high atop a train trestle. Quentin defeats Gerard, who plunges to his death. The group rush to confront Carlotta, but she jumps from the top of Collinwood when the ghostly Angelique beckons her from below. In the end, Quentin and Tracy are about to leave Collinwood when Quentin goes back inside the house. Tracy follows to find him now completely possessed by Charles Collins, and Angelique reborn in the flesh. The camera freezes on Quentin's face as he advances menacingly toward Tracy. A newspaper caption at the end reveals that Alex and Claire Jenkins have been killed in a car accident.
Dr. Emil Hobbes  is conducting unorthodox experiments with parasites for use in transplants, however, he believes that humanity has become over-rational and lost contact with its flesh and its instincts, so the effects of the organism he actually develops is a combination of aphrodisiac and venereal disease. Once implanted, it causes uncontrollable sexual desire in the host. Hobbes implants the parasites in his teen-aged mistress, who promiscuously spreads them throughout the ultra-modern apartment building, outside Montreal, where they live. The community's resident physician, Roger St. Luc , and his assistant, Nurse Forsythe  attempt to stop the parasite infestation before it overwhelms the city's population.Arthur Kirkland  is a hotheaded but idealistic young defense attorney in Baltimore. As the film opens, he is in jail on a charge of contempt of court for having thrown a punch at judge Henry T. Fleming  while arguing the case of an innocent defendant, Jeff McCullaugh . McCullaugh was stopped for a minor traffic offense, but then mistaken for a killer of the same name and convicted. He has already endured year and a half in jail, as Kirkland continues his efforts to have the case reviewed against Fleming's resistance. Though there is strong new evidence that the convicted man was innocent, Judge Fleming refused Kirkland's appeal due to a minor technicality and leaves McCullaugh in prison. Kirkland takes another case, that of meek, gentle transgender Ralph Agee , who is guilty of a small crime and becomes a victim of the legal system. Kirkland also pays regular nursing home visits to his beloved Grandfather Sam , who is becoming senile. It is revealed that Arthur was abandoned by his parents at a young age and it was Sam who raised him and put him through law school. Arthur also begins a romance with a legal ethics committee member, Gail Packer . One day, Kirkland is shocked to find himself requested to defend Judge Fleming, who to everyone's surprise has been accused of rape. The two loathe each other, but Fleming feels everyone will believe he is innocent if the person publicly known to hate him also argues his innocence. Fleming uses blackmail, telling Kirkland an old violation of lawyer-client confidentiality will be reviewed by the ethics committee and Arthur likely will be disbarred if he refuses to represent Fleming. Gail confirms this off the record. An eccentric judge named Rayford , who has a friendly relationship with Kirkland, takes him for a hair-raising ride in his personal Bell 47 helicopter over the harbor and Fort McHenry, laughing as he tests how far they can possibly go without running out of fuel, while Arthur, his terrified passenger, begs him to land the helicopter immediately. Rayford, a veteran of the Korean War, is possibly suicidal, and keeps a rifle in his chambers at the courthouse, a 1911 pistol in his shoulder holster at all times and eats his lunch out on the ledge outside his window, four stories up. Kirkland's friend and partner, Jay Porter , is also unstable. He feels guilt from gaining acquittals for defendants who were truly guilty of violent crimes and goes berserk when one commits another murder. After a breakdown at the courthouse, Jay is taken to a hospital accompanied by Kirkland. Before leaving in the ambulance, a distracted Arthur calls on another lawyer friend, Warren Fresnell , to handle Ralph's court hearing in his absence. Arthur gives Warren a corrected version of Ralph's probation report, and stresses the fact that Warren must show the corrections to the judge so that Ralph will get probation rather than being sent to jail. Unfortunately, Warren forgets to appear on time, fails to show the judge the corrected report, and Ralph is sentenced to jail where he commits suicide through hanging off-screen. Kirkland is livid, and attacks Warren's car with his briefcase in retaliation and to get his attention. Warren argues that Ralph's trial was nothing but "nickels and dimes" and beneath him, before Kirkland sternly reminds him "they're people" and then informing of Ralph's suicide . His other client, McCullaugh, abused by fellow prisoners , snaps one day and takes two hostages. Arthur pleads with him to surrender, promising to get him out, but the police shoot and kill McCullaugh after he stands up, providing a shot for a police sharpshooter, as Arthur looks on in horror. A clearly disturbed Kirkland takes on Judge Fleming's case, which Judge Rayford and a jury will hear in court. Arthur acquires evidence from another client, Carl, incriminating photographs that show Fleming in BDSM acts with a prostitute. Gail warns him not to betray a client. He shows the pictures to Fleming, who then freely admits that he is guilty of the rape. Disgusted with his situation, Kirkland goes to trial. Fleming makes a sleazy remark to Kirkland about wanting to rape the victim again, which finally pushes Kirkland to the breaking point. In his opening statement, Arthur begins by mocking the case of the prosecuting attorney  while speaking of the ultimate objective of the American legal system. He appears to be making a strong case to exonerate Fleming. But unexpectedly, he bursts out and says that prosecution is not going to get Fleming, because he is going to get him. Kirkland tells the jury, "My client, The Honorable Henry T. Fleming, should go right to fucking jail! The son of a bitch is guilty!" The courtroom erupts and the presiding judge Rayford, the prosecution, and the others in the court room are enraged and flabbergasted at the turn of events, including Gail. The judge calls Kirkland "out of order," bangs his gavel to bring the court to order. Arthur replies, "You're out of order! You're out of order! The whole trial's out of order!" Arthur is dragged away, continuing to shout his rage all the way out the door and to criticize Fleming for his and the legal system's abuse of law and order that cost the lives of his two clients and let true criminals like Fleming go free to commit more crimes. As the courtroom spectators cheer for Arthur, Fleming sits down in defeat, and a fed-up Rayford walks out of his stand. In the end, Kirkland sits on the court's steps, all by himself, weary from his breakdown but satisfied, knowing his antics probably cost him his practice and career in law, but will presumably finally put Fleming in jail. His partner Jay, just released from the mental hospital, climbs up the long steps, tipping his toupee like a hat and greets him with a friendly "Hi, Arthur" and walks away and inside the court building.On the planet Krypton, using evidence provided by scientist Jor-El, the Ruling Council sentences three attempted insurrectionists, General Zod, Ursa and Non, to "eternal living death" in the Phantom Zone. Despite his eminence, Jor-El is unable to convince the Council of his belief that Krypton will soon explode. To save his infant son Kal-El, Jor-El launches a spacecraft containing the child towards Earth, a distant planet with a suitable atmosphere, and where Kal-El's dense molecular structure will give him superhuman powers. Shortly after the launch, Krypton is destroyed. Three years later the ship lands near an American farming town, Smallville, where Kal-El is found by Jonathan and Martha Kent. The Kents take the child back to their farm and raised him as their own son, naming him Clark after Martha's maiden name. At age 18, soon after the death of Jonathan, Clark hears a psychic "call", discovering a glowing green crystal in the ship. It compels him to travel to the Arctic, where the crystal builds the Fortress of Solitude, resembling the architecture of Krypton. Inside, a vision of Jor-El explains Clark's origins, educating him in powers and responsibilities. After 12 years, with his powers fully developed, Clark leaves the Fortress with a colorful costume and becomes a reporter at the Daily Planet in Metropolis. He meets and develops a romantic attraction to coworker Lois Lane, but she sees him as awkward and unsophisticated. Lois becomes involved in a helicopter accident where conventional means of rescue are impossible, requiring Clark to use his powers in public for the first time to save her. The rescue of Air Force One and other good deeds make the mysterious "caped wonder" a celebrity. The hero visits Lois at home, takes her for a flight over the city, and allows her to interview him for an article in which she names him "Superman." Meanwhile, criminal genius Lex Luthor has developed a cunning plan to make a fortune in real estate by buying large amounts of barren desert land and then diverting a nuclear missile test flight to the San Andreas Fault. The missile will sink California and leave Luthor's desert as the new West Coast of the United States, greatly increasing its value. After his incompetent henchman Otis accidentally redirects the first rocket to the wrong place, Luthor's girlfriend Eve Teschmacher successfully changes the course of a second missile. Knowing Superman could stop his plan, Luthor lures him to his underground lair and exposes him to Kryptonite. As Superman weakens, Luthor taunts him by revealing that the first missile is headed to Hackensack, New Jersey, in the opposite direction, knowing that Superman cannot stop both impacts. Teschmacher is horrified because her mother lives in Hackensack, but Luthor does not care and leaves Superman to a slow death. Teschmacher rescues Superman on the condition that he will deal with the New Jersey missile first. He is thus too late to stop the second impact, causing a massive earthquake which he battles to correct. While Superman is busy saving others, Lois's car falls into the ground due to an aftershock. It quickly fills with dirt and debris and she suffocates to death. Distraught at being unable to save Lois, Superman ignores Jor-El's warning not to interfere with human history, preferring to remember Jonathan Kent's advice that he must be on Earth for "a reason". He travels back in time in order to save Lois, altering history so that her car is never caught in the aftershock. Superman then delivers Luthor and Otis to prison and flies into the sunrise for further adventures.The actions once again take place in the small French town of Saint-Tropez. This time, Chief Marshal Cruchot has discovered that aliens have arrived in their town. The aliens—which are made of iron—can duplicate the forms of humans and are skilled in the ways of telekinesis; they promptly impersonate the policemen. Cruchot finds that the only two ways to tell them apart are the fact that they drink oil and that, when struck, they make a sound similar to that of an empty rubbish bin. Hilarity, of course, ensues, especially when identities get mixed up: Cruchot is assumed to be mad.The film chronicles Twyman's and Stokes's relationship from Stokes's rookie year in the NBA up until his death. Stokes and Twyman were teammates on the Rochester Royals during the 1950s . Stokes fell ill three days after the last game of the 1957-58 NBA season, in Minneapolis. Stokes drove to the basket, drew contact and fell to the floor, hit his head, and was knocked unconscious. He was revived with smelling salts, and he returned to the game. Three days later, after an opening-round playoff game against the Detroit Pistons, Stokes became ill during the team's flight back to Cincinnati, suffered a seizure and fell into a coma to awaken in a Cincinnati hospital three weeks later. Stokes never fully recovered from the brain injury, and he was left permanently paralyzed. He would be confined to bed or a wheelchair as an almost completely paralyzed quadraplegic, and would need constant nursing care. Twyman offered his friendship and continuous moral support and financial aid to Stokes and his family , who were saddled with the difficult task of caring for the virtually invalid Stokes, up until Stokes's death from a heart attack in 1970.On October 6, 1970, while on holiday in Istanbul, Turkey, American college student Billy Hayes straps 2kg of hashish blocks to his chest. While attempting to board a plane back to the US with his girlfriend, Billy is arrested by Turkish police on high alert due to fear of terrorist attacks. He is strip-searched, photographed and questioned. After a while, a shadowy American  arrives, takes Billy to a police station and translates for Billy for one of the detectives. On questioning Billy tells them that he bought the hash from a taxicab driver, and offers to help the police track him down in exchange for his release. Billy goes with the police to a nearby market and points out the cab driver, but when the police go to arrest the cabbie Billy sees an opportunity and makes a run for it. He gets cornered in a building and is recaptured by the mysterious American. During his first night in holding, Billy, freezing cold, sneaks out of his cell and steals a blanket. Later that night he is rousted from his cell and brutally beaten by the chief of guards, Hamidou. He wakes a few days later in Sağmalcılar prison, surrounded by fellow western prisoners Jimmy , Max  and Erich  who help him to his feet. Jimmy tells Billy that the prison is a dangerous place for foreigners like themselves and that no-one can be trusted, not even the young children. In the ensuing weeks following his arrest, Billy attempts to gain his release through the Turkish justice system. On the advice of Max, he hires a Turkish attorney, Yesil, who has a reputation for having successfully defended another prisoner also arrested with a large quantity of hashish. Billy’s father arrives from the US and the two share an emotional reunion. The courtroom scene at Billy’s trial is disorienting to both father and son as the prosecutor rapidly hurls accusations at Billy in Turkish. As the two ask their lawyer for an explanation, Yesil reassures them the remarks were just technical and not to worry, that the judge likes him. The judge returns a verdict of 4 years in prison angering the prosecutor and devastating Billy and his father. Yesil assures them it is an excellent outcome and that Billy could have received a lifetime sentence for smuggling, a sentence the prosecutor was vehemently arguing for. Father and son retreat to a small holding area where they tearfully share their devastation. Billy is hauled off to begin his sentence. In the next several years, Billy settles into life as a prisoner in this strange and horrible place. He begins a close relationship with Erich. Erich is gay and wishes to consummate the relationship but Billy refuses. Shortly after, Erich is released. Billy actually settles into some sense of normalcy engaging in long conversations with Max, smoking the cheap and awful drugs sold in the prison by chief snitch and prison trustee Rifki and counting the days until his release. Rifki is despised by all and routinely taunts the English speaking prisoners. Eighteen months before his release, Jimmy tries to get Max and Billy to go along with an escape plan. Billy refuses essentially putting his faith in the justice system due to release him in a year and a half. Jimmy tries on his own, is caught, and is severely beaten, nearly to death. In 1974, 53 days before his original term in prison is to expire, Billy's sentence is overturned by the Turkish High Court in Ankara after a prosecution appeal , and he is ordered to serve at least a 30-year life term for his crime. His stay becomes a living hell: terrifying scenes of physical and mental torture follow one another culminating in Billy having a breakdown and beating to near death his fellow prisoner Rifki, biting out Rifki's tongue in the process. Following this breakdown he is sent to the prison's ward for the insane where he wanders in a daze among the other disturbed and catatonic prisoners. He meets fellow prisoner Ahmet whilst participating in the regular inmate activity of walking in a circle around a pillar. Ahmet claims to be a philosopher from Oxford University and engages him in conversation to which Billy is unresponsive. In 1975, Billy's girlfriend, Susan, comes to see him and is devastated at what has happened to him. She tells him that he has to escape or else he will die in there and leaves him a scrapbook with money hidden inside as "a picture of your good friend Mr. Franklin from the bank," hoping Billy can use it to help him escape. Her visit moves Billy strongly, and he begins to regain some of his senses. He says goodbye to Max, telling him not to die and to wait for Billy to come back for him. He attempts to bribe the head guard to take him to the sanitarium where there are no guards. Instead the guard takes Billy past the sanitarium to another room and attempts to rape him. With a freak stroke of luck, Billy kills the brutish and sadistic guard by pushing him on to a coat hook. He seizes the opportunity to escape by putting on a guard's uniform and managing to walk out of the front door. In the epilogue it is explained that on the night of October 4, 1975 he successfully crossed the border to Greece, and arrived home three weeks later.The film is set in a modern war, probably between a European country and a country in the Far East. Behind the battle lines, in a medical unit, a surgeon falls in love with an idealistic nurse after an initially difficult meeting.Philip Lamont, a priest struggling with his faith, attempts to exorcise a possessed South American girl, who claims to "heal the sick." Afterwards, Lamont is assigned by the Cardinal to investigate the death of Father Lankester Merrin, who had been killed four years prior in the course of exorcising the Assyrian demon Pazuzu from Regan MacNeil. The Cardinal informs Lamont  that Merrin is up on posthumous heresy charges due to his controversial writings. Apparently, Church authorities are trying to modernize and do not want to acknowledge that Satan as an actual evil entity exists. Regan, although now seemingly normal and staying with guardian Sharon Spencer in New York, continues to be monitored at a psychiatric institute by Dr. Gene Tuskin. Regan claims she remembers nothing about her plight in Washington, D.C., but Tuskin believes her memories are only buried or repressed. Father Lamont visits the institute but his attempts to question Regan about the circumstances of Father Merrin's death are rebuffed by Dr. Tuskin, believing that Lamont's approach would do Regan more harm than good. In an attempt to plumb her memories of the exorcism, specifically the circumstances in which Merrin died, Dr. Tuskin hypnotizes the girl, to whom she is linked by a "synchronizer"{{spaced ndash}}a biofeedback device used by two people to synchronize their brainwaves. After a guided tour by Sharon of the Georgetown house where the exorcism took place, Lamont returns to be coupled with Regan by synchronizer. The priest is spirited to the past by Pazuzu to observe Father Merrin exorcising a young boy, Kokumo, in Africa. Learning that the boy developed special powers to fight Pazuzu, who appears as a swarm of locusts, Lamont journeys to Africa, defying his superior, to seek help from the adult Kokumo. Lamont learns that Pazuzu attacks people who all have some form of psychic healing ability. Kokumo has since become a scientist, studying how to prevent grasshoppers from becoming locust swarms. Regan is able to reach telepathically inside the minds of others; she uses this to help an autistic girl to speak, for instance. Father Merrin belonged to a group of theologians who believed that psychic powers were a spiritual gift which would one day be shared by all humanity in a kind of global consciousness; and thought people like Kokumo and Regan were foreshadowers of this new type of humanity. In a vision, Merrin asks Lamont to watch over Regan. Lamont and Regan return to the old house in Georgetown. The pair are followed by Tuskin and Sharon, concerned about Regan's safety. En route, Pazuzu tempts Lamont by offering him unlimited power, appearing as a succubus doppelganger of Regan. Lamont initially succumbs to the demon but is brought back by Regan and attacks the Regan doppelganger while a swarm of locusts deluge the pair and the entire house begins to crumble around them. However, Lamont manages to kill the Regan doppelganger by beating open its chest and pulling out its heart. In the end, Regan banishes the locusts  by enacting the same ritual attempted by Kokumo to get rid of locusts in Africa . Outside the house, Sharon dies from burn injuries after she immolates herself and Tuskin tells Lamont to watch over Regan. Regan and Lamont leave and Tuskin remains at the house to answer the police's questions.Formula One auto racer Bobby Deerfield is a calculating, control-obsessed loner who has become used to winning the checkered flag on the track. But after he witnesses a fiery crash that kills a teammate and seriously wounds a competitor, Deerfield becomes unsettled by the spectre of death. During a visit to the survivor, Deerfield's world is further set askew when he meets Lillian Morelli , a quirky, impulsive woman racing against time.In a small Southern town, John Little and Jimmy Price are police officers charged with enforcing the law. In a local election, Jimmy is chosen as Sheriff to the dislike of a few in town. With many counting on a good Sheriff, Jimmy works as hard as he can, although time and the town may be against him. A radio ad for the film summizes the story simply: "tick...tick...tick is the sound of time...running out".Charley, after undergoing a beating by white men, escapes with two fellow slaves before being sold to a different plantation owner. He is put up for sale after his ailing plantation owner says he can no longer afford him. The three fugitives are put down when they engage in everyday activities. For instance, when Charley asks a bartender for three beers, he is asked, "Don't you know your place, nigger?" In response, Charley beats a patron and forces the bartender to flee. He then tells his friends, "I ain't never gonna be a slave again for no man ... I ain't taking no shit from no white man again. I'm a free man, and that's the way I'm gonna die." The three seek their freedom in the Old West. But they are chased by a gang of white men on horseback, who vow not to let them go free. Throughout their journey, the escaped slaves meet villains and violence. The film ends with Charley and his friend, Toby, surviving an intense shootout and riding off. Toby asks "Where shall we go now, Charley?" Charley responds "Don't matter. Wherever we go, there's trouble waiting for us."Raun was born "like all miracles, perfect" to Bears and Suzi Kaufman.http://living.scotsman.com/features/Rising-to-the-light.2359793.jp He had 12 out of 13 symptoms of autism. Medical professionals were pessimistic about Raun's condition. The Kaufmans' utilized their downstairs restroom which was the only place free of distractions.{{citation needed|daterising/> Other forms of contact Raun made included crying when he was thirsty for juice. At the end of the film, Raun was six years old and was known as "a happy, active, bright, and loving normal boy."Short Eyes is set in an unnamed House of Detention in New York City, the prisoners of which are predominately black or Puerto Rican. One day, a new prisoner is brought in: Clark Davis, a young, middle-class white man accused of raping a young girl. His fellow prisoners immediately turn on him — pedophiles are considered the lowest form of prison life — except for Juan, one of the institution's older prisoners, who treats him with dignity. While Davis insists he doesn't remember raping the girl, he admits that he has molested several other children. Nevertheless, the case against him is weak and, unless Juan tells prison authorities about Davis' confessions to him, it is only a matter of time before he is set free. As Juan struggles with what to do, the other prisoners plan to rid themselves of Davis permanently.Jack Dunne , a Vietnam veteran who turns out to have a case of lacunar amnesia, escapes a mental ward in New York City to start a business as a worm farmer in Eureka, California. At the bus station, he accidentally meets Carol Bell , a woman unsure of her engagement and imminent marriage to a man she has confused feelings towards. They set off on a trip to middle America: she traveling to think things over, he to locate his three old war buddies and involve them in his scheme to raise worms.Bowie, a youthful convicted murderer, and bank robbers Chicamaw and T-Dub escape from a Mississippi chain gang in the 1930s. They hole up with a gas station attendant and continue robbing banks. Bowie, who is injured in an auto accident, takes refuge with the daughter of the gas station attendant, Keechie. They become romantically involved but their relationship is strained by Bowie's refusal to turn his back on crime. Chicamaw is eventually recaptured and T-Dub is killed while waiting in his car for his wife. Bowie poses as a sheriff's deputy to spring Chickamaw from jail. But he quickly becomes disgusted with the violent, raving Chicamaw and abandons him on the side of the road. The Texas Rangers catch up with Bowie, who is betrayed by a motel keeper. He meets a violent end. Keechie carries on, pregnant with Bowie's baby.After last robbery, Olsen Gang went to Majorca, but without any money, as Benny and Kjeld accidentally threw loot to the garbage bin. Egon breaks to the local restaurant to get back on track with the finances, unfortunately he's caught and whole gang returns to Denmark. After some time Egon is released; Kjeld and Benny are waiting for him but Egon abandons them: He has been hired by Stock Broker Holm Hansen to open a safe in Switzerland belonging to his deceased associate. Egon demands 25% of the value equivalent of the contents of the safe as payment for his work. Holm Hansen agree, but has his Swiss henchman double-cross Egon once the safe is open and leave him at the mercy of the Swiss police. Egon escapes though, and makes it back to Denmark, where he reunites with Benny and Kjeld with a new plan to exact revenge and claim his payment. The safe held the Bedford Diamonds, an extremely valuable collection of jewelry, much sought-after as an inflation-proof investment for cash and wanted by police all over the world. Holm Hansen sells the diamonds to an Arabian Oil Sheikh for 15 million dollars. Using a boat, a bus and one hundred balloons, the Gang manage to snatch the diamonds under the very nose of the Sheikh and his police escort. Egon, knowing that the diamonds cannot legally be sold, plan instead to use them to extort 50% of the 15 million from Holm Hansen, but is foiled by Yvonne, who has hidden the diamonds and replaced them with worthless souvenirs. Holm Hansen concludes that Egon is raving mad, but far too knowledgeable about his businesses and orders his henchman "Bøffen" to make Egon "disappear and stay gone forever". Bøffen captures Egon and attempts to drown him in the Copenhagen harbor, but Egon is saved in the nick of time by Benny and Kjeld. Egon how has a final plan. With Benny and Kjeld disguised as police officers and Egon playing captive, the Gang confronts Holm Hansen. With Holm Hansen distracted by Benny, Egon and Kjeld open his safe and replace the 15 million dollars with the diamonds. Realizing he has been played, Holm Hansen calls the real police, which promptly arrest him on finding the Bedford Diamonds in his possession. The Gang subsequently escapes to Majorca with the money.In 1959, Michael Courtland , a New Orleans real estate developer, has his life shattered when his wife Elizabeth  and young daughter Amy are kidnapped. The police strongly recommend that he provide the kidnappers with shredded blank paper instead of the demanded ransom, and he agrees to the plan. This leads to a bungled car chase in which both kidnappers and victims are killed in a spectacular explosion. Courtland blames himself for the deaths of his wife and daughter. Fifteen years pass. Courtland is morbidly obsessed with his dead wife, and regularly visits a monument he has had built in her memory. The monument is a replica of the church  where he and Elizabeth had met many years before in Florence, Italy. His real estate partner Robert LaSalle  convinces Courtland to tag along on a business trip back to Florence. While there, Courtland revisits the church, and suddenly comes face to face with a young woman named Sandra  who looks exactly like his late wife. The already slightly unhinged Courtland begins to court the young woman, and subtly attempts to transform her into a perfect mirror image of his dead wife.  Courtland returns to New Orleans with Sandra so they can marry. On their wedding night, Sandra is kidnapped and a ransom note is left behind by her abductors. It is an exact replica of the kidnappers' message from fifteen years before. This time, Courtland decides to deliver the demanded cash. He withdraws massive quantities of money from his accounts and business holdings, financially ruining him and forcing him to sign over his interest in the real estate business to LaSalle. In the process, he discovers that his entire ordeal, including the original kidnapping, had been engineered by LaSalle as a way to gain sole control of Courtland's company share holdings. The now nearly insane Courtland stabs LaSalle to death. Knowing that Sandra must have been a willing accomplice in the plot against him, he goes to the airport to kill the escaping woman. On the plane, Sandra has a flashback to her part in the scheme; she is in fact Courtland's daughter, allowed by LaSalle to survive the explosive traffic "accident" from years before that had killed her mother. LaSalle had told her lies about Courtland over the years, convincing her that her father had not paid the ransom because he didn't love her. Sandra, who now loves Courtland, attempts suicide on the plane and is taken off the flight in a wheelchair. Courtland sees her and runs toward her, gun drawn. A security guard attempts to stop him but Courtland smashes the briefcase full of money against the guard's head, knocking him unconscious. The briefcase breaks open and all of the money flies out. Sandra, seeing the fluttering bills, stands up and shouts: "Daddy! You brought the money!" Courtland now realizes for the first time who Sandra really is, and father and daughter fall into a deep embrace.Soon after the Great War, Major Foster , the commander of a detachment of the French Foreign Legion, suffers the haunting memories of leading an army of 8,000, now reduced to 200. He became an alcoholic as a result, and his only friend is his faithful Sergeant, Triand . Foster arrives in Paris to assume a new command: to return to the Rif  to re-establish French authority, as Bedouin and Berber tribes have begun to revolt against French rule. Foster is also ordered to escort archeologists from the Louvre, who are uncovering an ancient city near Erfoud buried by a sand storm 3,000 years ago. The site is the final resting place of a Berber saint, "The Angel of the Desert". Foster was chosen for the assignment, as he is the only French officer alive who served in Morocco before the war. He had helped to develop diplomatic ties with the tribes, especially with El Krim, the de facto leader of the scattered Rif tribes. Foster had vowed to El Krim that there would be no further archeological excavations. Foster’s force is assembled. Among those who volunteer, willingly or unwillingly, is "the Gypsy" Marco Segrain , a charming jewel thief famous for a three-year crime spree on the Riviera until French authorities managed to apprehend him. Gypsy befriends three other recruits: the Russian giant Ivan , formerly a member of the elite bodyguard of the deposed Russian Imperial family; “Top Hat” Gilbert Francis , a fashionable man and musician who lacks the physical traits needed in a soldier; and Fredrick Hastings , a romantic young English aristocrat who missed the Great War. The four friends are soon disillusioned by the harsh realities of life in the Legion. A fatal fight breaks out among the men while traveling to Morocco over a homophobic insult to Maj. Foster's honor, to which Sgt. Triand takes exception. Foster does not hesitate to harshly discipline his men, especially Marco, who frequently disobeys orders, though he does care for his men. During the voyage, Marco charms Mme. Picard , daughter of a murdered archaeologist. During their land journey to the Legion fortress, the train carrying the Legionnaires and the archaeological team is stopped by El Krim  and his men. El Krim greets his old friend Foster but also declares that he is determined to unite the Berber tribes to drive the French out of Morocco. El Krim gives a "gift" to Foster to take back to the Premier of France: the archeologists of an earlier dig, who have been blinded and whose tongues have been cut out. He warns Foster not continue the excavation. Training in the desert is so harsh, it pushes Top Hat to the point of suicide. Later, at the digging site, Hastings is kidnapped while on guard duty and tortured to death by one of El Krim’s men, whom El Krim excuses as being merely over-zealous. Marco retaliates. Instead of disciplining him, Foster merely defends him, using El Krim’s previous excuse for the actions of his own man. Eventually, the tomb of the Angel of the Desert is found, and her golden sarcophagus is excavated. Foster offers it to El Krim as a token of peace, but El Krim rallies the warriors of all Bedouin tribes to fight a climactic battle. With the Legionnaires being heavily outnumbered, the digging site is eventually overrun. Ivan is killed, but Marco fights on, single-handedly fending off a flank attack. When Foster is killed, El Krim immediately calls off the fight, sending the surviving Legionnaires “to tell the world what happened” and out of respect for his dead friend. There are two endings: the TV version ends with Marco taking up Mme Picard's offer to desert. The theatrical ending shows Marco  staying behind and training more Legionnaire recruits, welcoming them by reiterating Foster's warning: "If the desert doesn't get you, the Arabs will. If the Arabs don't get you, the Legion will. And if the Legion doesn't, then I will. I don't know which is worse."Two schoolboys are playing with a model plane on an abandoned military base in the English countryside. They are approached by two RAF personnel who rebuke them for trespassing, and take them to see their commanding officer. It soon becomes apparent that they are not really in the military and the two boys are kidnapped. In London a British intelligence officer, Major Tarrant, is engaged in an undercover operation to try to infiltrate a gang of arms smugglers – who are selling weapons to terrorists in Northern Ireland. He makes an initial approach with Celia Burrows, a member of the organisation. He arranges to come back the next week to meet her boss. He then heads to a large country house, where the head of MI6 Sir Edward Julyan lives, and makes a report about his operation to Julyan and his direct superior, Cedric Harper. While he is there he receives a telephone call from his wife – who tells him their son David has been taken and she has received a strange phone call. Tarrant reacts calmly, revealing to his superiors only that he has a family problem, and is given permission to leave. Tarrant goes to his wife's home in time to receive a second call from a man identifying himself as Drabble. Drabble demonstrates he knows exactly who Tarrant is and what jobs he does. He instructs him to get Harper to answer the next phone call – making it clear he has Tarrant's son David and is prepared to torture him. Tarrant goes to Harper, and informs him of the situation. Harper agrees to take the phone call and begins to put a surveillance operation into motion – to discover the identity of Drabble. When Drabble gets in touch, he demands that Harper give him £500,000 in uncut diamonds and make a rendezvous in Paris. Harper had recently acquired that exact amount of diamonds to fund another operation he has planned. Harper deduces that Drabble must be acting with information supplied by a member of British intelligence. He immediately begins to suspect Tarrant of staging the kidnapping, and has him placed under observation. Tarrant, meanwhile, has to assign his arms-smuggling case to another officer. The Drabble gang have placed incriminating evidence into Tarrant's flat, which appears to show a relationship with Celia Burrows, and this is found by Scotland Yard officers conducting a search. This further fuels Harper's belief that Tarrant has in fact arranged the entire kidnapping himself. Harper meets with Tarrant in his office and tells him that he cannot allow the ransom to be met, as the British government does not negotiate with terrorists. Tarrant seemingly accepts this, but when Harper has departed, he breaks into his office and impersonates Harper on a secure telephone – arranging to have the diamonds made available. He then takes them to Paris to make the rendezvous – giving the slip to the tail Harper has placed on him. In Paris he is met by Celia Burrows at the rendezvous. She takes him to a building where it is claimed Tarrant's son is being held. It soon becomes apparent to Tarrant that Drabble has not got his son there. Instead Drabble makes a cryptic reference to a place in Southern England where there is a view of two windmills. Once he has got the diamonds the ruthless Drabble murders Celia Burrows, and leaves an unconscious Tarrant lying beside the corpse. Tarrant is arrested by the French police - and handed over to Harper and British intelligence. A rescue is then staged by Drabble gang, freeing Tarrant from Harper's custody, but then trying to murder him. Tarrant manages to escape and head back to England. He realises that Drabble meant to try to silence him for good – therefore protecting whoever in British intelligence was supplying him from information. Tarrant then attempts to flush out the traitor, by pretending to be Drabble and arranging a rendezvous at the two windmills with various senior British officers which he now knows to be the Clayton Windmills near Brighton. The man who comes to the rendezvous is Sir Edward Julyan who is ambushed by Tarrant. Under duress he admits that he arranged the whole thing as he urgently needed large amounts of money to enjoy a comfortable retirement with his free-spending wife. He tries to get Tarrant to accept half the value of the diamonds, but he refuses – and instead demands to know the whereabouts of his son. Julyan tells him that he is being held in the black windmill by Drabble. Tarrant then storms the windmill and rescues his son, killing Drabble and his henchman. He carries David out of the windmill and along the road singing "Underneath the spreading chestnut tree" to him.Captain Yossarian , a U.S. Army Air Forces B-25 bombardier is stationed on the Mediterranean island of Pianosa during World War II. Along with other members of his squadron, Yossarian is committed to flying dangerous missions, and after watching his friends die, he seeks a means of escape. Futilely appealing to his commanding officer, Colonel Cathcart , who keeps increasing the number of missions required to be sent home before anyone can reach it, Yossarian finds that even a mental breakdown is no release when Doctor Daneeka  invokes the "Catch-22" that the US Army employs. As explained, an airman "would be crazy to fly more missions and sane if he didn't, but if he was sane he'd have to fly them. If he flew them he was crazy and didn't have to; but if he didn't, he was sane and had to." Trapped by the convoluted logic of the Catch-22, Yossarian watches as individuals in the squadron resort to other means to cope; Lt. Milo Minderbinder  concocts elaborate black market schemes while crazed Captain "Aarfy Aardvark"  even commits murder. Nately  falls for a prostitute, Major Danby  delivers goofy pep talks before each bomb run and Nurse Duckett  resorts to belting Yossarian once in a while. Following an attempt on his life, Yossarian flees the hospital and sets out in a raft, paddling to Sweden, a refuge for one of his other squadron mates who successfully escaped the madness.In 1780, Prince Mamuwalde , the ruler of an African nation, seeks the help of Count Dracula  in suppressing the slave trade. Dracula refuses to help and transforms Mamuwalde into a vampire and imprisons him in a sealed coffin. Mamuwalde's wife, Luva , is also imprisoned and dies in captivity. In 1972, the coffin has been purchased as part of an estate by two interior decorators, Bobby McCoy  and Billy Schaffer  and shipped to Los Angeles. Bobby and Billy open the coffin and become Prince Mamuwalde's first victims. At Bobby's funeral, Mamuwalde encounters Tina , who Prince Mamuwalde believes is the reincarnation of his deceased wife. On investigating the corpse at the funeral, Dr. Gordon Thomas  helps Lt. Peters  with an investigation of murders that are occurring. Prince Mamuwalde continues to kill and transform various people he encounters into vampires as Tina begins to fall in love with him. Thomas, Peters, and Michelle follow the trail of murder victims and begin to believe a vampire is responsible. After Thomas digs up Billy's coffin, Billy's corpse rises as a vampire and attacks Peters who fends him off. After finding a photo taken of Mamuwalde where his body is not visible, Thomas and Peters track Mamuwalde to his hideout. They defeat several vampires but Mamuwalde manages to escape. Later, Mamuwalde lures Tina to his water works while Thomas and a group of police officers pursue him. Mamuwalde dispatches several officers as one shoots Tina. To save Tina from death, Mamuwalde transforms her into a vampire. After Peters manages to kill the vampire Tina, Mamuwalde believes he can not live any longer after losing her twice. Mamuwalde leaves for the surface where the sunlight rots his flesh and kills him.The movie begins as Chicago Bears running back Gale Sayers  arrives to team practice as an errant punt was sent to Sayers. Running back Brian Piccolo  comes by to retrieve the ball, as Sayers flips the ball to him. Sayers eventually heads into the team headquarters to meet with coach George Halas. During practice, Piccolo struggled, compared to Sayers, who also pranked him by placing mashed potatoes on his seat while Piccolo was singing his alma mater's fight song. Afterwards, Sayers and Piccolo were placed into the same room, a rare sign during this time. Eventually, in a game against the San Francisco 49ers, Sayers excelled, until he injured his knee. To aid in Sayers's recovery, Piccolo brings a weight machine to aid in working his knee. In Sayers's place, Piccolo rushed for 160 yards in a 17-16 win over the Los Angeles Rams, and was given the game ball. Piccolo later challenged Sayers to a running race across the park, where Sayers later stumbled. In their room, Halas handed Piccolo the starting fullback position, and both Piccolo and Sayers would eventually excel in games against teams like the Pittsburgh Steelers. However, in a different game, Piccolo started to show signs of a decline in performance. Eventually, before a loss, Halas revealed to Sayers that Piccolo has cancer. In an emotional speech to the team, Sayers stated that they will give Piccolo the game ball. After a game against the St. Louis Cardinals, Sayers visited Piccolo's wife, who stated that Piccolo has a tumor. After he was awarded the George S. Halas Most Courageous Player Award, Sayers dedicated his speech to Piccolo. In a call, Sayers mentioned that he gave Piccolo a pint of blood to aid him, who was in critical condition. Piccolo would die with his wife by his side, and the movie ends with a flashback of Piccolo and Sayers running through the park.Small-time promoter/hustler Marvin Lazar  sees a potential money-making venture in the Bears that will help him to pay off his debts. After seeing a TV spot about the Bears, he decides to chaperone the baseball team for a trip to Japan in their match against the country's best little league baseball team. As implied in Breaking Training, the Bears had to defeat the Houston Toros for a shot at the Japanese champs. In the process, the trip sparks off a series of adventures and mishaps for the boys. A subplot involves Kelly Leak's interest in a local Japanese girl, and the cultural divide that comes to bear in that relationship. About half of the original or "classic" lineup of Bears players return . Three new players are featured: E.R.W. Tillyard III, Abe Bernstein and Ahmad's younger brother, Mustapha Rahim.While visiting the Ventana nuclear power plant outside Los Angeles, television news reporter Kimberly Wells , her maverick camerman Richard Adams  and their soundman Hector Salas witness the plant going through an emergency shutdown . Shift Supervisor Jack Godell  notices an unusual vibration while grabbing his cup of coffee which he had set down; then he finds that a gauge is misreading and that the coolant is dangerously low . The crew manages to bring the reactor under control. Richard surreptitiously films the incident, despite being requested to not film the control room for security purposes. When he shows the film to experts, they realize that the plant came close to the China Syndrome in which the core would have melted down into the earth, hitting groundwater and contaminating the surrounding area with radioactive steam. During an inspection of the plant before it's brought back online, a technician discovers a small puddle of radioactive water that has apparently leaked from a pump. Godell pushes to delay restarting the plant, but the plant superintendent denies his request and appears willing to let nothing come in the way of the scheduled restart of the plant. Godell investigates further and uncovers evidence that radiographs of welds on the leaking pump have been falsified . He believes that the plant is unsafe and could be severely damaged if another full-power SCRAM occurs. He tries to bring the evidence to plant manager Herman DeYoung, who brushes Godell off as paranoid and states that new radiographs would cost at least $20 million. Godell confronts D.B. Royce, an employee of Foster-Sullivan, the construction company who built the plant, as it was Royce who signed off on the welding radiographs. When Godell threatens to go to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Royce threatens him and a pair of goons from Foster-Sullivan park outside his house. Kimberly and Richard confront Godell at his home with what they know, at which point, the engineer voices his concern about the vibration he felt during the SCRAM and his anger about the false radiographs. Kimberly and Richard ask Godell if he'll come clean at NRC hearings, being held at Point Conception, where Foster-Sullivan is looking to build another nuclear plant. Godell tells them about the threat on his life, but agrees to get them, through Hector, the false radiographs to take to the hearings. Following the exchange though, Hector is run off the road by company men and the radiographs are taken. Godell leaves for the hearings but is chased by the goons out his house. He escapes by taking refuge in the plant. To his dismay, Godell finds that the reactor is being brought up to full power. He grabs a gun from a security guard, forces everyone out, including his best friend and co-worker Ted Spindler , and demands to be interviewed on live television by Kimberly. Plant management agrees to the interview, which buys them time as they try to regain control of the plant. Minutes into the broadcast, plant technicians deliberately cause a SCRAM so they can retake the control room . While Godell is distracted by the SCRAM alarms a SWAT team forces its way into the control room. The television cable is cut and a panicky Godell is shot by the police, but before he dies he feels the unusual vibration again. The resulting SCRAM is only brought under control by the plant's automatic systems. True to Godell's predictions, the plant suffers significant damage as the pump malfunctions. Plant officials try to paint Godell as emotionally disturbed, but Ted states that Godell would not have taken such drastic steps had there not been something wrong. The film ends with a tearful Kimberly concluding her report as the reporter's live signal abruptly cuts to color bars.The film starts with a scene common to many Westerns, cowboys in a drunken state shooting up a town and wreaking havoc.<ref name81072 TCM on Lawman] The rowdies are from the town of Sabbath and are visiting the town of Bannock for a little recreation that gets out of hand. The town's marshal, Jered Maddox, rides into Sabbath and is not alone. He brings along the body of Marc Corman, one of the unruly cowhands from the recent drunken spree in Bannock, carrying it on the back of a horse. Maddox follows protocol and calls on Sabbath's sheriff, Cotton Ryan. He demands that the five surrender to him within 24 hours.imdb on Lawman Quote: Robert Ryan Sabbath marshal Cotton Ryan Ryan is a lawman whose career had seen better days. He urges Maddox to avoid a confrontation with Bronson. Maddox won't back down, although he believes the suspects are likely to get light sentences due to the accidental nature of their crime and the fact that the justice system of Bannock can easily be influenced by bribes. Ryan goes to Bronson's ranch to inform him of Maddox's demands. One of the suspects, Stenbaugh, who is Bronson's foreman, tries to persuade Bronson to have Maddox killed. Despite his violent past, Bronson is tired of death and violence and refuses Stenbaugh's suggestion, insisting on further negotiations. Maddox is unmoved by Laura's pleas for mercy. Bronson gives up hope of reasoning with Maddox and asks his men if they wish to surrender. Back at the ranch, Bronson grieves upon hearing of his close friend Stenbaugh's death. He is comforted by son Jason. Maddox's breakfast is interrupted by local businessman Harris, leading a delegation of armed citizens concerned that the lawman is creating a lot of problems for them. Price tries to leave town. Crowe meets with Maddox to swear that he did not set him up for Dekker's ambush. Maddox reveals his disillusionment with his job and admits that lawmen are little more than professional killers. Maddox turns over Adams to sheriff Ryan and announces his intent to leave town and start a new life. When businessman Harris, who was waiting on the sidelines, opens fire at Maddox, the others follow suit. Choctaw draws on Maddox but gets killed. Price panics. As he runs toward Laura, Maddox shoots him in the back, despite his code of never drawing first on a man. Seeing his son dead, a grief-stricken Bronson kills himself in the street. Maddox can do nothing more but ride by himself out of town.Reggie Dunlop  is the aging player-coach of the Charlestown Chiefs hockey team in the fictional Federal League. A perennial loser for years, the team's manager Joe McGrath  has resorted to extreme cost-cutting techniques and embarrassing promotional antics to keep local interest alive. Dunlop, while not particularly talented as either a player or coach, is a skilled con man, and regularly manipulates the team to his own advantage. During a hopeless season, the team picks up the Hanson Brothers, bespectacled violent goons with childlike mentalities, complete with toys in their luggage. Horrified at being given players who seem stupid, immature, and unreliable, Dunlop initially chooses not to play them. When it is announced that the local mill will be closing and 10,000 workers will be unemployed, Dunlop grows concerned about the team's future. He makes several attempts to learn the identity of the team's anonymous owner , but is deftly deflected by McGrath each time. When McGrath accompanies them on an away game, top scorer Ned Braden  overhears him attempting to get a job with another team. Dunlop confronts McGrath, who confirms that the Chiefs will fold at the end of the season. Determined to save the team at all costs, Dunlop starts provoking fights at games to secure goals. In a moment of desperation, he lets the Hansons play and discovers that their aggressive fighting style enthralls the fans. He begins retooling the team as a goon squad in the Hansons' image and attendance quickly increases. Capitalizing on this growing interest, he plants a false story with eccentric sports news writer Dickie Dunn  that a Florida retirement community is interested in purchasing the team, in order to bolster the confidence of the players and to hopefully inspire an actual sale. Most of the players, such as Dave "Killer" Carlson  embrace the shift, but Braden, a college-educated player with a clean style, resists every chance to fight. Braden's failing relationship with his bored wife Lily , puts further strain on him, and Dunlop feigns interest in her to make Braden more aggressive. After realizing that she is truly depressed and falling into alcoholism, Dunlop establishes a friendship between her and his estranged ex-wife Francine . Meanwhile, the Chiefs' tactics get them into a great deal of legal trouble and make them a number of enemies, in particular, the Syracuse Bulldogs and their mercurial leader Tim "Doctor Hook" McCracken, who is determined to pummel Dunlop after a humiliating defeat. When the Chiefs' success fails to make any real progress, Dunlop's patience wears out. He uses an embarrassing past homosexual advance from McGrath to blackmail him into revealing the identity of the team's owner: a wealthy widow named Anita McCambridge . Amused at Dunlop's optimism, she compliments him on his clever manipulations, but admits that she cares little for hockey and despises the violence. She informs Dunlop that while he has made the team a viable commodity for a lucrative sale, she would rather fold it to procure a tax write-off. Appalled at her indifference, Dunlop insults her and storms off. Completely defeated, and with the realization that the championship will be his last game, Dunlop decides to abandon his efforts and end his career with a clean win. He admits his deception to the players and manages to get them on board to play their final game straight: "old-time hockey." The Syracuse Bulldogs, the Chiefs' opponents, have abandoned their original lineup and stocked their roster with an assembly of the most notorious enforcers in Federal League history, some of whom have actually been banned from the sport but reinstated for this one occasion. The Chiefs are pummeled in the first period, and McGrath storms into the locker room and angrily informs them that the stands are full of NHL scouts. Hearing this, Dunlop and the Chiefs change their minds and turn the remainder of the game into an all-out brawl. While sulking on the bench, Braden spots Lily in the stands with Francine. Enthralled by her makeover and attendance, he skates out to center ice and strips off his uniform, prompting the arena's band to accompany him with "The Stripper". Both teams stop fighting and stare in amazement at the striptease, more offended by Braden's antics than their own. McCracken demands that the referee put a stop to it. When the official refuses, McCracken sucker-punches him, causing the referee to declare a forfeit, thus giving the Federal League championship to the Chiefs. The team celebrates by parading around the ice with the championship trophy, carried by Braden, wearing nothing but skates and a jockstrap. During a championship parade in Charlestown the following day, Dunlop flags down a departing Francine and informs her that he has accepted a job as the coach of a new team, the Minnesota Nighthawks, and that he intends to bring Chiefs players with him.A USCG pilot and his winchman Haig  answer an SOS call at sea and arrive at a derelict schooner, the Requite. Haig lowers himself to the ship, where he finds three dead bodies along with one survivor, Eva , cowering in the cabin. As the pilot attempts to retrieve Haig and Eva with a rescue basket, the line breaks, plunging the two into the ocean. After they swim back to the boat, the pilot informs Haig that he must return to base because his fuel is borderline. Eva and Haig spend the night on the boat, during which time she recounts the story of the storm that killed everyone else aboard. One man was hurled through a hatch; one is hanging from the ship's mast; another vanished before her eyes; and a fourth man is in an aft compartment, floating in the air. Eva attributes the deaths to supernatural causes, but Haig has a practical explanation for everything, including the man who appears to be floating in the air. Early the next morning, the pilot returns along with the Coast Guard cutter Venturous. Haig and Eva are transferred from the Requite to the deck of the Venturous, where they board the helicopter for the flight back to Miami. At the same time, Coast Guard personnel from the Venturous investigate the wrecked schooner. The story takes a bizarre turn when the Venturous' captain calls Haig to tell him that what they found on the ship was not what Haig reported. The film is an example of a twist ending. The film was directed by Sutton Roley.During the Mexican Revolution, a peasant named El Vasco  starts a revolt in his town by killing the army colonel in charge. Rebel leader and self-appointed General Mongo  soon arrives on the scene and hires El Vasco to his revolutionary gang. However, Mongo is more interested in gaining fortune for himself than for his country. Yodlaf Peterson , a Swedish mercenary arrives in Mexico to sell guns to General Mongo. The safe containing the money is locked and only Professor Xantos  knows the combination. Xantos is the leader of a student counter-revolution that opposes violence, and is held in a prison by the United States army, after he tried to find funding from the US and did not agree to give the monopoly of his country's entire oil wealth in return. El Vasco dislikes the suit-wearing Peterson and calls him a "penguin", but at the suggestion of General Mongo, the two reluctantly join forces and set out to capture Xantos. Their task is made harder by the American army and a wooden-armed American named John , who wants to exact revenge on Peterson, his former business partner. Peterson had left John to die after he was crucified, and his pet hawk had to peck his right hand off to save him. In order to maximize their personal gain and to support Xantos' rebel fighters, El Vasco and Peterson have to doublecross Mongo. They receive help from Lola , the leader of Xantos' rebel group, to whom El Vasco develops a crush, and her group of young revolutionaries.{{cite web}}The Mafia learns that a new civic center will be built, and they buy all of the land for the site of the building&mdash;all except for one place: a karate school owned by Pop Byrd, Black Belt Jones' old friend. Pop Byrd had borrowed money from a local drug dealer, Pinky, in order to open his school. Pinky had been stealing money from the mafia and was forced to pay them $250,000 or get Pop's building for them. Pinky inflated the debt, with the intent of offering Pop the deal of trading his building in exchange for the debt being cleared. However, things do not go as planned, as Pop is accidentally killed by Pinky's men during an intimidation attempt. Before he dies, he states that he couldn't give them the building to settle his debt, because it did not belong to him, but to someone named Sydney. Pinky then decides to send his men to the karate school, to inform them of Pop's debt  and attempt the same scheme. However, the thugs are beaten up by Black Belt Jones and the students. Meanwhile, a woman arrives to attend Pop's funeral, who is none other than Sydney, the daughter of the late Pop Byrd. After demanding to know what happened to her father, she is informed of the mafia's activities as well as her father's debt, but says she won't sell the building. Angered, she is determined to punish the people who caused her father's death. Informed of Sydney's martial arts prowess by Quincy, Black Belt Jones joins forces with her to "clobber the mob".The setting is 1913 Mexico at the time of the Revolution. Juan Miranda , a Mexican outlaw leading a bandit family, meets John  Mallory , an early Irish Republican explosives expert on the run from the British. Noting his skill with explosives, Juan relentlessly tries to make him join a raid on the Mesa Verde national bank. John in the meantime has made contact with the revolutionaries and intends to use his dynamite in their service. The bank is hit as part of an orchestrated revolutionary attack on the army organized by Doctor Villega . Juan, interested only in the money, is shocked to find that the bank has no funds and instead is used by the army as a political prison. John, Juan and his family end up freeing hundreds of prisoners, causing Juan to become a "great, grand, glorious hero of the revolution". The revolutionaries are chased into the hills by an army detachment led by Colonel Günther Reza . John and Juan volunteer to stay behind with two machine guns and dynamite. Much of the army's detachment is destroyed while crossing a bridge which is machinegunned by them and blown to bits by John. Col. Reza who commands an armoured car, survives. After the battle, John and Juan find most of their comrades, including Juan's family and children, have been killed by the army in a cave. Engulfed with grief and rage, Juan goes out to fight the army singlehanded and is captured. John sneaks into camp where he witnesses executions of many of his fellow revolutionaries by firing squad. They had been informed on by Dr. Villega, who has been tortured by Col. Reza and his men. This evokes in John memories of a similar betrayal by Nolan , his best friend, whom John kills for informing. Juan faces a firing squad of his own, but John arrives and blows up the squad and the wall with dynamite just in time. They escape on a motorcycle John is driving. John and Juan hide in the animal coach of a train. It stops to pick up the tyrannical Governor Don Jaime , who is fleeing  from the revolutionary forces belonging to Pancho Villa and Emiliano Zapata. As the train is ambushed, John, as a test of Juan's loyalty, lets him choose between shooting the Governor and accepting a bribe from him. Juan kills Jaime, and also steals the Governor's spoils. As the doors to the coach open, Juan is greeted by a large crowd and again unexpectedly hailed as a great hero of the revolution, the money taken away by revolutionary General Santerna . On a train with commanders of the revolution, John and Juan are joined by Dr. Villega, who has escaped. John alone knows of Villega's betrayal. They learn that Pancho Villa's forces will be delayed by 24 hours and that an army train carrying 1,000 soldiers and heavy weapons, led by Col. Reza, will be arriving in a few hours, which will surely overpower the rebel position. John suggests they rig a locomotive with dynamite and send it head on. He requires one other man, but instead of picking Juan, who volunteers, he chooses Dr. Villega. It becomes clear to Villega that he knows of the betrayal. John nonetheless pleads with him to jump off the locomotive before it hits the army's train, but Villega feels guilty and stays on board. John jumps in time and the two trains collide, killing Villega and a number of soldiers. The revolutionaries' ambush is successful, but as John approaches to meet Juan, he is shot in the back by Col. Reza. An enraged Juan riddles the Colonel's body with a machine gun. As John lies dying, he continues to have memories of his best friend, Nolan, and a young woman both apparently loved. John recalls killing Nolan after being betrayed by him to the law. Juan kneels by his side to ask about Dr. Villega. John keeps the doctor's secret and tells Juan that he died a hero of the revolution. As Juan goes to seek help, John recalls his time in Ireland with Nolan and a girl whom they both were in love with; knowing his end is near, sets off a second charge he secretly laid in case the battle went bad. Juan stares at the burning remains, asking forlornly: "What about me?"On Snape Island, a small isolated point off the English coast, a series of bizarre brutal murders have taken place. A team of archeologists decide to head to the island to uncover a possible Phoenician treasure, but instead they find a horrific mystery when someone, or something, begins to kill off the curious trespassers.The film, set over the course of four consecutive New Year's Eves from 1964 to 1967 depicts scenes from each of these years, intertwined with one another as though events happen simultaneously. The audience is protected from confusion by the use of a distinct cinematic style for each section. For example, the 1966 sequences echo the movie of Woodstock using split screens and multiple angles of the same event simultaneously on screen, the 1965 sequences  shot hand-held on grainy super 16 mm film designed to resemble war reporters' footage. The film attempts to memorialize the 1960s with sequences that recreate the sense and style of those days with references to Haight-Ashbury, the campus peace movement, the beginnings of the modern woman's liberation movement and the accompanying social revolt. One character burned his draft card showing a younger audience what so many Americans had done on the television news ten years before the movie's release. Other characters are shown frantically disposing of their marijuana before a traffic stop as a police officer pulls them over, and another scene shows the police brutality with billy clubs during an anti-Vietnam protest. The listed fates of the main characters at the ending sequence of American Graffiti were updated again at the end of this sequel. In More American Graffiti, John Milner was revealed to have been killed by a drunk driver in December 1964 , with the ending scene of the movie driving his trademark yellow Deuce at night along a lonely highway toward another vehicle's headlights, and is never seen going further, hinting that the crash was in that vicinity. Set on New Year's Eve 1964, it is never actually shown that his tragic end comes after his racing win on the last day of the year, very probably instead into the first few moments of 1965, given that the 1967 segment was just barely into 1968. The anniversary of John's death is mentioned in both the 1965 and 1966 sequences. Terry "The Toad" Fields' classification as "missing in action" is not explored in greater detail since the movie shows that he faked his own death. The ending sequence would have read "killed in action" had the story ended there. Terry is believed to be dead by his superiors in 1965 and by his friends – Debbie in 1966 and Steve and Laurie in 1967. Joe Young , Toad's war partner, vividly meets his death with a sniper's bullet to the chest in one scene after having promised to make Terry a Pharaoh once they get back from Vietnam. The relationship of Steve and Laurie is strained by Laurie's insistence that she start her own career, though Steve forbids it saying he wants her to be a mom to their young twins. Free-spirited Debbie "Deb" Dunham has turned from Old Harper to marijuana and has given up her platinum blonde persona for a hippie/groupie one in a long, strange trip that ends with her performing with a country-and-western music group. Wolfman Jack briefly reprised his role, but in voice only. The drag racing scenes for More American Graffiti were filmed at the Fremont Raceway, later Baylands Raceway Park , in Fremont, California.The SS Poseidon, an ocean liner slated for retirement and scrapping, is making her way across the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea from New York City to Athens. Despite the protests of Captain Harrison , who fears for the ship's safety in troubled waters, the representative of her new owners, Mr. Linarcos , insists that she make full speed towards its destination, preventing her from taking on additional water ballast. Detective Lieutenant Mike Rogo  and his former-prostitute wife Linda  — seasick, like many of the passengers — receive an invitation to the captain's table. Reverend Frank Scott , a minister questioning his faith and believing God helps those who help themselves, delivers a sermon at Mass. Susan Shelby  and her younger brother Robin  are traveling to meet their parents. Robin is interested in how the ship works and frequently visits the engine room. Retired Jewish hardware store owner Manny Rosen  and his wife Belle  are going to Israel to meet their two-year-old grandson for the first time. Haberdasher James Martin  is a love-shy, health-conscious bachelor. The ship's singer, Nonnie Parry  rehearses for the New Year celebrations with her band which includes her brother Teddy on drums. That evening, New Year's Eve, passengers gather in the dining room to celebrate. Captain Harrison is called to the bridge because of a report of an undersea earthquake. He receives word from the lookout that there is a huge wave heading towards them coming from the direction of Crete at 60 mph. He issues a mayday and commands a "hard left" turn, but it is too late. The wave hits the bridge, killing him, Linarcos, and the other ship's officers on the bridge. With its lack of ballast, the ship capsizes, killing or injuring many of the people on board. In the dining room, survivors take stock of their predicament. Acres , an injured waiter, is trapped at the galley door now high above. With information from Martin, Scott surmises that the escape route will be found 'upwards', at the outer hull, which is now above water. Robin tells him that the hull near the propeller shaft is only one inch  thick. The Rosens, the Rogos, Nonnie, Susan, Robin, Acres, and Martin agree to go with him, using a Christmas tree as a ladder. He unsuccessfully tries to convince more passengers to join them. After the small group climbs to the galley, there is a series of explosions. As seawater floods the room the survivors rush to the Christmas tree, but the weight of everyone climbing causes it to collapse. Acres and Scott find the galley, and the survivors pick their way through it to a staircase. Scott climbs its underside and he and Rogo use a firehose to pull the others up. He leads them to an access tunnel. Rogo has been instructed to look after everybody, but just as Martin and Nonnie climb into the hole, water begins filling the corridor. While climbing up a long ladder inside the funnel, with Acres above them, the ship rocks from another series of explosions. Acres falls into the churning water and is lost despite Rogo's attempt to save him. Climbing out of the shaft, Scott and Rogo argue over the loss of Acres. Their group meets a larger band of survivors led by the ship's medic, heading towards the bow. Scott is certain they are heading for their doom, but Rogo wants to follow them and gives him fifteen minutes to go aft to find the engine room. Although he takes longer than allowed, he finds his way there. The group discovers the engine room is on the other side of a flooded corridor, so someone must swim through with a line to help the others. Belle, a former competitive swimmer, claims she can manage it, but Scott refuses and dives in with the line. Halfway through, a panel collapses on him, trapping him. The survivors notice something is wrong and Belle dives in. She frees him and they make it to the other side. As he secures the lifeline, Belle has a heart attack. Before dying she tells him to give her "Chai" pendant  to Rosen, who in turn will give it to their grandson. Rogo swims over to make sure Belle and Scott are all right, then leads the rest over. When Rosen swims to the other side and finds Belle's body he is unwilling to go on, but Scott gives him her Chai pendant, reminding him that he has a reason to live. Scott leads the survivors across a catwalk to the propeller shaft room's watertight door, but there is another series of explosions and Linda falls to her death. An infuriated and heartbroken Rogo blames her death on Scott. More explosions rupture a pipe that releases steam, blocking their escape. Scott, outraged about the three deaths and this final obstacle, rants at God for betraying the survivors. He leaps and grabs onto the burning-hot valve wheel to shut off the steam, then tells Rogo to lead the group before letting go of it, sacrificing himself. Rogo leads the remaining survivors — Rosen, Martin, Nonnie, Susan and Robin — through the watertight door and into the propeller shaft room. They hear a noise above the ship and bang on the ceiling/floor to get the rescuers' attention. The rescuers then cut through the hull and help the group out of the ship. The survivors, the only six alive after the disaster, fly off to safety by helicopter.Pippi, with friends Tommy and Annika, adventures on the South Seas to hunt for her father, who has been kidnapped by pirates.Editorial Reviews of the movie of Amazon.comSmall-time Boston crook Tony Pino  tries to make a name for himself. He and his five associates attempt to pull off a large-scale robbery whenever they could. After Tony and his gang easily rob over $100,000 in cash from a Brinks Armored Car, Tony disguises himself as a sparkplug salesman and is able to get inside Brinks' large and so-called "impregnable fortress" headquarters in the city's North End, a company renowned for unbreachable security as a private "bank" throughout the East Coast. Once inside, Tony realizes that Brinks is anything but a fortress and the employees treat the money "like garbage". Still wary of Brinks' image, Tony breaks in one night after casing the building, to find that only two doors in the building are locked, and one is easily bypassed by leaping a gate. The only thing locked in the building is the vault. Also, Tony realizes that unlike what Brinks claims, there is only a 10-cent alarm in the vault room itself, and is almost impossible to set off. It appears that Brinks had relied so much on their reputation for strong security that they had not locked the doors. Pino then begins to plan out the robbery, using the rooftop of a neighboring building as a watch tower. After realizing that Brinks is his for the taking, Tony and his dim brother-in-law Vinnie  put together a motley gang of thieves to rob Brinks. They include the debonair Jazz Maffie  and the slightly deranged Iwo Jima veteran, Specs O'Keefe , who proposes to blow open the Brink's safe with a bazooka. Over the crew's objections, Pino also invites the arrogant fence Joe McGinnis  to be in on the job. Together, the robbers, led by Pino, on the night of Jan. 17th, 1950, make off with more than a million dollars in cash, along with another million-plus in securities and checks. Brink's, a company that prides itself in the safekeeping of money, is nationally embarrassed by what the press is calling "the crime of the century." Even FBI director J. Edgar Hoover  takes a personal interest in finding the culprits, even so much as creating a makeshift FBI Office in Boston. Law enforcement agents begin rounding up suspects. They come to the home of Tony and Mary Pino, as they often do for crimes in the area. Mary is so familiar with them by now, she makes the cops dinner. Tony is brought in for questioning, but reacts with indignation at being accused. The crooks begin to crack, however. McGinnis infuriates them by destroying a large sum of the hold-up money, claiming the bills could be traced. He also hangs onto the rest, defying threats by Pino and his cohorts to hand over their shares. Specs and another of the gang, Stanley Gusciora, go on the road to meet his "sugar doughnut" in Pittsburgh, where they are picked up by Pennsylvania State Police on a burglary charge enroute at Bradford, Pennsylvania and are each handed a long jail sentence, Gusciora at the Western Penitentiary-Pittsburgh . Specs grows more and more disturbed behind bars, demanding that money from his cut be sent to his ill sister. In interrogation, Specs and Stanley are pressured more each day to reveal whatever they might know about the Brink's job. Specs ultimately confesses. One by one, the rest of the gang is apprehended, mainly by the Boston Police Department. Tony is on his way to jail in Boston and so is Vinnie, but they unexpectedly find themselves hailed as heroes by people on the street for having pulled off one of the great crimes of all time. One teen remarks to Pino, "You're the greatest thief who ever lived! Nobody will ever do what you did Tony!"The film starts with a pair of swimsuit models who are out in a boat to stage a publicity stunt by appearing to be stranded. They discover a mysterious galleon shrouded in mist and board it. When contact is lost, the wealthy and unscrupulous businessman who sent them out decided to mount is own rescue mission after abducting one of the models friends. Who makes an unsuccessful escape attempt while the businessman and his secretary recruit an eccentric scholar to assist them as they too head out to discover the boat. But this phantom galleon carries the coffins of the satanic Templar, eyeless mummies who hunt humans by sound. The two models are killed before the rescue even arrives and then the new party discovers their ship has vanished as well, stranding them on the eerie galleon. Then the friend is captured and dragged into the depths of the ship to be dismembered and eaten while the rest of the group is under a possibly magical slumber. Finally the survivors struggle to repel and combat the spectral knights with what knowledge they have of the undeads weaknesses.In 1943, after their successful mission on the Greek island of Navarone, Mallory ([[Robert Shaw  and Miller ([[Edward Fox  are sent to find and kill Nicolai. Originally thought to be a traitor who informed the Germans about Miller and Mallory during the Navarone mission, Nicolai is now known to be Colonel von Ingorslebon, a dedicated German spy believed to have infiltrated the Yugoslav Partisans as "Captain Lescovar" . To get to Yugoslavia, the two men pair with "Force 10", an American sabotage unit, led by Lt. Col. Barnsby , which has its own mission there. To maximize security, Force 10 steals a plane from Termoli, Italy, rather than requisitioning one; but they are spotted by American MPs before they can take off. Weaver , a U.S. Army sergeant under arrest by the MPs, joins with Force 10 and forces his way onto the plane. Barnsby and crew successfully "escape" Termoli only to be shot down by Luftwaffe night fighters. Only Barnsby, Mallory, Miller, Weaver, and Reynolds  manage to escape the crippled plane. On the ground, the survivors run across a group they believe to be their allies, Communist Yugoslav Partisans. Led by Capt. Drazak , Force 10's rescuers are soon revealed to be collaborationist Chetniks  under German control. The Germans take the team into custody but do not know their mission. Mallory and Barnsby tell the commander, Major Schroeder ([[Michael Byrne , that they are criminals fleeing Allied authorities. To keep Schroeder from opening Miller's suitcase, which contains his special explosives, Mallory tells him that it contains a new drug called "penicillin". By the next morning, the prisoners are told that Schroeder has opened the case, finding it full of firewood. Mallory and Barnsby improvise, "admitting" they buried the samples. Schroeder sends them to retrieve them, under the guard of his concubine Maritza  and three of his soldiers. Miller, Weaver, and Reynolds are left in a cell in camp. Far from camp, Maritza kills the Germans, revealing herself to be a partisan spy. She directs Mallory and Barnsby towards the partisans under the command of her father, Major Petrovich . Mallory and Barnsby escape, ambushing and killing two of Drazak's Chetniks, who are bandaged to hide burns from flamethrowers. Eventually, the two meet a patrol of real Yugoslav Partisans led by a man Mallory recognizes his target – Captain Lescovar alias Nicolai. While Mallory assumes that Lescovar has recognized him, too, he and Barnsby are nevertheless taken to the partisans. Mallory and Barnsby realize where they are when they recognize a wide river and a large hydroelectric dam near the Partisan camp. Skeptical, Major Petrovich dismisses Mallory's story about Lescovar being Nicolai, assuring Mallory they executed the real Nicolai months earlier. He reproves the men for killing the bandaged Chetniks, as the men were partisan infiltrators and his only link to his daughter Maritza. Major Petrovich's principal worry is an impending assault by the Wehrmacht. The Germans are marshaling their forces nearby, and only a ravine separates as many as three German divisions from the outnumbered partisans. Only a single concrete arch bridge links each side of the ravine, but the partisans have been unable to destroy it. Convinced that no bridge is impregnable, Barnsby reveals that this bridge is, in fact, Force 10's target. Knowing Miller's expertise in demolitions, Mallory convinces a reluctant Petrovich to help mount a rescue mission using Lescovar and the Partisan Marko . The four re-enter the camp at night, Mallory and Barnsby posing as captives and the partisans disguised as the bandaged men. Before they complete their mission, Drazak arrives with the bodies of the real bandaged men and, since Maritza had always been seen with them, concludes she was a partisan as well. A gun battle breaks out in the cell block. Major Schroeder and Force 10's Reynolds are killed; but Mallory, Barnsby, Miller, Weaver, Lescovar and Marko escape in a truck with a badly beaten Maritza and the recovered explosives. Having made it to the Partisans, explosives expert Miller reveals that the bridge really is impregnable. Mallory hits upon the idea of destroying the upstream dam they saw earlier, with the sudden onrush of several millions of gallons of water being enough to destroy the bridge. A night-time air drop is arranged to replace Force 10's lost supplies, but Lescovar sabotages the drop by calling in German planes. Maritza spots Lescovar betraying the partisans, but he kills her before she can warn the others. German planes bomb the illuminated drop zone. Major Petrovich, angered by the botched air drop, orders the men to be sent to Marshal Josip Broz Tito's headquarters for transport back to Italy. The team decides to infiltrate the German marshaling yards at Mostar to steal explosives, taking Lescovar and Marko. Lescovar again betrays them, alerting a German sergeant to their presence, identifying himself as an Abwehr officer. Marko overhears the plan and sacrifices himself to save the others. The others escape, with Lescovar, aboard a train leaving for Sarajevo. Lescovar's hasty cover story doesn't fool Mallory or Barnsby—Barnsby had observed Lescovar's interactions with the German sergeant, who, fatally, salutes him even though Lescovar's uniform made him out to be a corporal; Mallory had noticed a map showing that their train passes within a half-mile of the dam - a fact Lescovar "neglected" to bring up. Though Lescovar denies treachery, Mallory is convinced and Barnsby kills him. Jumping the train near the dam, the team splits up: Miller and Weaver set off diversionary explosives while Mallory and Barnsby sneak into the dam. Weaver runs into Capt. Drazak in the woods and kills him after a knife fight. Mallory and Barnsby set their charges within the dam but realize that they are out of time. With the German assault only minutes away - they are forced to set a short fuse, leaving them no time to escape. Mallory and Barnsby are caught in the explosion, yet nevertheless survive. At first, the dam appears undamaged, but soon it begins to disintegrate. With its fragile structural integrity disrupted, the dam wall collapses, releasing millions of tons of water in a wave that topples the real target, the impregnable bridge. The German assault is thwarted, saving the Partisans. Mallory and Barnsby rejoin Miller and Weaver, but the jubilation is short-lived. Mallory reminds the men that they're now trapped on the wrong side of the river, with no supplies and no way of contacting or reaching the partisans. As the credits roll, the men begin a strenuous journey back to friendly lines.The plot involves an African American veteran of the Vietnam War, played by Gene Washington, who returns home to find that his brother  has been killed. The killing was done by a white motorcycle gang who objected to the fact that the Robert Howard character had been dating a white woman. The Gene Washington character and his motorcycle gang, also known as the Black Six, attempt to avenge the brother's death. The gang encounters a number of obstacles, including hostile motorcycle gangs  and prejudiced policemen. The movie ends in an inconclusive battle royale with caucasian white-supremist biker gang.<ref nameInternet Movie Database - The Black Six Plot|url2008-08-03}}The film opens with a brief action sequence in which a mobster named Roxy Robinson  is "splurged" by members of a gang, using rapid-fire custard-shooting "splurge guns". Once splurged, a kid is "all washed up" and his career in crime is over—the splurged gangsters are never shown as dead or even unconscious, merely "finished". Speakeasy boss, Fat Sam  introduces himself and Bugsy Malone , a boxing promoter with no money . At Fat Sam's speakeasy, there is much dancing and singing , but Fat Sam himself is worried that his rival Dandy Dan  will come to the speakeasy and try to take over. Blousey Brown , an aspiring singer, has come for an audition, but Sam is too distracted. Bugsy meets Blousey when he trips over her luggage. He is smitten, and flirts with her. Suddenly, Fat Sam's is raided by Dandy Dan's men, who shoot the place up. Dandy Dan's men continue to attack Fat Sam's empire, eventually taking away rackets and splurging most of Fat Sam's gang. Fat Sam learns about the splurge guns when one is dropped and left at the scene of an attack. Fat Sam sends all his available men to see if they can track down the guns; they are trapped at a laundry and all splurged by Dandy Dan's gang. Bugsy returns to Fat Sam's to try to arrange a new audition for Blousey. He only finds Fat Sam's girlfriend, Tallulah , the chanteuse of the speakeasy, who tells him that she likes him. Although Bugsy rejects her flirtation, when Blousey enters, Tallulah plants a big kiss on Bugsy's forehead, making Blousey jealous. Blousey has her audition and Fat Sam hires her, but she still refuses to speak to Bugsy  Fat Sam hires Bugsy to come along to a meeting with Dandy Dan. This meeting turns out to be a trap, but Bugsy helps Fat Sam escape. Gratefully, Fat Sam pays him $200. Bugsy and Blousey reconcile, and have a lunch and a romantic outing on a lake. Back in the city, Bugsy promises to buy tickets for them to leave for Hollywood. However, when he returns Sam's car to the garage, he is attacked, and his money stolen. Bugsy is saved by Leroy Smith , who punches the attackers; seeing this, Bugsy realizes he has found a potentially great boxer. Bugsy introduces Leroy to Cagey Joe  and helps him begin training . Fat Sam once again enlists Bugsy's aid after his assistant Knuckles gets splurged by a splurge gun which Fat Sam invented. Bugsy breaks up the idea with Blousey to leave for Hollywood and helps fat Sam, leaving Blousey in a state of disappointment after finding out . Bugsy and Leroy follow Dandy Dan's men to a warehouse, where they discover the guns are being stashed. The two of them can't take the place alone, so Bugsy enlists the aid of a large group of down-and-out workers at a soup kitchen . They steal the crates of guns and return with them to Fat Sam's just as Dandy Dan's gang arrives. Chaos breaks out and everyone is covered in a melee of custard. A pie hits the piano player Razmataz, who falls forward, striking a single bass note with his head. Silence instantly breaks out, and then the cast, now covered in white cream , engages in a final musical number . The characters realise they can all be friends, and Bugsy and Blousey leave for Hollywood.The movie takes place in 1970. The Vietnam War is escalating and United States President Richard Nixon has just decided on a "secret" bombing campaign in Cambodia. Faced with a growing anti-war movement, President Nixon decrees a state of emergency based on the McCarran Internal Security Act of 1950, which authorizes federal authorities, without reference to Congress, to detain persons judged to be a "risk to internal security". Members from the anti-war movement, civil rights movement, feminist movement, conscientious objectors, and Communist party, mostly university students, are arrested and face an emergency tribunal made up of community members. With state and federal jails at their top capacity, the convicted face the option of spending their full conviction time in federal prison or three days at Punishment Park. There, they will have to traverse 53 miles of the hot California desert in three days, without water or food, while being chased by National Guardsmen and law enforcement officers as part of their field training. If they succeed and reach the American flag at the end of the course, they will be set free. If they fail by getting "arrested", they will serve the remainder of their sentence in federal prison.{{cite book}}Larry Martin  is a Newsweek reporter, secretly working for the CIA. He is tasked, along with Israeli intelligence, to work for the release of five wealthy girls kidnapped by the PLA from the yacht Rosebud. Martin must contend with the girls' fathers, all of whom are wealthy, connected and concerned. Sloat , the head of Black September, is connected with the kidnappings, and is subsequently hunted down.The movie starts out in 1988 with pilot Koji Miyoshi's return to Japan in response to electromagnetic interference that is plaguing the world following a comet scare. Miyoshi is quickly reunited with old friends and acquaintances upon his arrival, although the reunion is cut short as UFOs began to appear all across America as the UN's Space Station Terra is also destroyed in orbit. This series of events prompts Miyoshi to meet with Masato Takigawa and request that the United Nations Space Forces' Gohten Project - construction of the UNSF Gohten, is completed. The request falls on deaf ears until the aliens from the distant planet of Yomi in Messier 13 who have been behind the recent disturbances bungle a plan to kidnap Takigawa, at which point work on the Gohten commences amongst global chaos from attacking Hell Fighter UFO's. Following a fierce battle at the Gohten’s base, the craft is finally launched as it makes its way to Venus, the suspected location of the invaders’ base of operations, to put an end to the alien threat.In the Goutte d'Or neighborhood of Paris, North African immigrants share a tiny apartment amongst their French neighbors. The two communities get along uneasily, their relationship rife with misunderstandings and mutual offense. Salah , from the southern Maghreb, is a witness to this immigrant life in Paris and to the day to day incidents which make up the life of his compatriots. They, excepting those willing to pursue a life of petty crime, live a life of tedium and depression. French racists in the area escalate tensions with a series of attacks that end in a double murder. Salah, with the help of his friends, decides to organise protests against the injustice they face.Kathie Rauch from Milwaukee, Wisconsin sends a letter to the German Embassy in Washington, D.C. claiming the Hindenburg zeppelin will explode after flying over New York. In the meantime, Luftwaffe Colonel Franz Ritter  boards with the intention of protecting the Hindenburg as various threats have been made to down the airship, which some see as a symbol of Nazi Germany. Ritter is assisted by a Nazi government official, SS/Gestapo Hauptsturmführer Martin Vogel , who poses as official photographer. However, both operate independently in investigating the background of all passengers and crew on the voyage. Ritter has reason to suspect everyone, even his old friend, Countess Ursula von Reugen , who vehemently opposes the Nazi regime. Other prime suspects include card sharks Emilio Pajetta  and Major Napier , Edward Douglas , a suspicious German-American ad executive, as well as several crew members and even the Hindenburg captains Pruss  and Lehmann . As the Hindenburg makes its way to Lakehurst Air Field, events conspire against Ritter and Vogel. They soon suspect the rigger Karl Boerth , a former Hitler Youth leader who has become disillusioned with the Nazis. Ritter attempts to arrest him. Boerth resists. He requests help from Ritter, whose son was killed a year before. Boerth's girlfriend, Freda Halle, was killed while trying to escape arrest as the Hindenburg crossed the Atlantic. Boerth, upon hearing the news of Halle's death, plans to commit suicide by staying aboard the airship as the bomb goes off. Ritter eventually agrees with Boerth to set the bomb to 7:30, when the airship should have landed and passengers disembarked. While setting up the bomb, Boerth drops the knife part which is recovered by a crew member, to cover up the loss of his knife, Boerth stole the knife from fellow Rigger Ludwig Knorr. Vogel starts to work behind Ritter's back, arresting Boerth and confiscating the Countess's passport. As the airship approaches Lakehurst Naval Air Station at 7:00, Ritter now realizes the landing has been delayed and searches for Boerth to ask where the bomb is. Vogel is caught by Ritter torturing Boerth and gets into a fight with Ritter and is knocked unconscious. An injured Boerth tells Ritter the bomb is in the repair patch of gas cell 4. Ritter attempts to defuse the bomb, but is unable to do so in time and is spotted at the last few seconds by a now awakened Vogel. The bomb explodes, killing Ritter instantly and sending Vogel flying down the walkway. Vogel would later survive, being carried by ground crewmen, while Boerth dies of his burns. At this point the film changes to monochrome in order to match up with the newsreel footage of the disaster. Passengers and crew struggle to survive the fire. The disaster scene ends when the camera pans over wreckage, towards a strip of burning fabric that says "Hindenburg" on it. The following day, with the fire cleared, a list of passengers who died or survived is described briefly, while the wreckage is examined for the inquiry before being cleaned up. The story ends with a tribute to Herbert Morrison's radio commentary, with the memorable quotation, "Oh the humanity," as the Hindenburg flies once again, only to disappear again in the clouds.The film is set in Karafuto after the radio broadcast of the Imperial Rescript on the Termination of the War. On August 15, 1945, Soviet forces invaded Karafuto. On August 20, the postal telegraph office in Maoka suspended operations and nine of the twelve telephone operators committed suicide by taking potassium cyanide while the city was being invaded.A Drax Industries Moonraker space shuttle on loan to the United Kingdom is hijacked in mid-air and MI6 operative, James Bond, agent 007, is recalled from Africa to investigate. En route in a small plane, on an unrelated case, Bond is attacked by the pilot and crew and is pushed out of the plane by the mercenary assassin Jaws. Bond survives by stealing a parachute from the pilot, whilst Jaws lands on a circus tent. Bond proceeds to the Drax Industries shuttle-manufacturing complex where he meets the owner of the company, Hugo Drax, and henchman Chang. Bond also meets an astronaut, Dr. Holly Goodhead and survives an assassination attempt via a centrifuge chamber. Bond is later aided by Drax's personal pilot, Corinne Dufour, as he finds blueprints for a glass vial made in Venice. Bond then foils another attempt on his life, using a hunting shotgun to shoot a sniper. Upon discovering that Dufour assisted Bond's investigations, Drax has her killed. Bond again encounters Goodhead in Venice where he is chased through the canals by Drax's henchmen. He discovers a secret biological laboratory, and by accidentally poisoning the scientists there, he learns that the glass vials are to hold a nerve gas deadly to humans, but harmless to animals. Chang attacks Bond and is killed, but during the fight, Bond finds evidence that Drax is moving his operation to Rio de Janeiro. Rejoining Goodhead, he deduces that she is a CIA agent spying on Drax. They promise to work together, but quickly dispense with the truce. Bond has saved one of the vials he found earlier, as the only evidence of the now-empty laboratory, giving it to M for analysis, who permits him to go to Rio de Janeiro. In Rio, Bond meets his Brazilian contact Manuela. Drax hires Jaws to finish Chang's job of eliminating Bond. Bond meets Goodhead at the top of Sugarloaf Mountain, where they are attacked by Jaws on a cable car. After Jaws' car crashes he is rescued by Dolly from the rubble, and the two fall in love. Bond and Goodhead are captured by henchmen, but Bond escapes and reports to an MI6 base in Brazil and learns that the toxin comes from a rare orchid indigenous to the Amazon jungle. Bond travels the Amazon River looking for Drax's research facility and again encounters Jaws and other henchmen. Bond escapes from his boat just before it hits the Iguazu Falls, and finds Drax's base. Captured by Jaws again, Bond is taken to Drax and witnesses four Moonrakers lifting off. Drax explains that he stole the Moonraker because another in the fleet had developed a fault during assembly. Bond is reunited with Goodhead; they escape and successfully pose as pilots on the sixth shuttle. The shuttles dock with Drax's hidden space station.  Drax plans to destroy human life by launching fifty globes containing the toxin into the Earth's atmosphere. Before launching them, Drax also transported several dozen genetically perfect young men and women of varying races, to the space station. They would live there until Earth was safe again for human life; their descendants would be the seed for a "new master race". Bond persuades Jaws and Dolly to switch their allegiance by getting Drax to admit that anyone not measuring up to his physical standards would be exterminated and Jaws attacks Drax's guards. Before the battle Drax launched three of the globes towards Earth, which Goodhead and Bond destroy from their shuttle then Bond and Goodhead disable the radar jammer hiding the station from Earth. The US sends a platoon of Marines in a military shuttle. A laser battle ensues in which Drax's guards as well as his new master race die. During the battle, Bond shoots Drax with a cyanide-tipped dart, then pushes him into an airlock and ejects him into space. The space station, heavily damaged in the battle, disintegrates. Jaws helps Bond and Goodhead escape in Drax's space shuttle. They too escape the space station as their module breaks away before the station explodes.Detectives Steve Carella , Meyer Meyer , Eileen McHenry , and Bert Kling  are part of the 87th Precinct's team investigating a murder-extortion racket run by a mysterious deaf man . While attempting to investigate and prevent the murders of several high-ranking city officials, they also must keep track of the perpetrators of a string of robberies. Further complicating matters is a rash of arson attacks on homeless men.ProductionCast Theme song Receptionhttp://www.avclub.com/articles/with-a-whimper-not-a-bang-15-particularly-depressi,29453|titleAV Club}} The action directed by Sammo Hung for the scenes with the Bruce Lee lookalikes and the footage that Bruce Lee shot for the original footage with the final three fights helped to alleviate the movie's problems. Apart from the cheesy techniques used to disguise the fact that Bruce Lee was being played by stand-ins, the movie enjoyed respectable production values.<ref name Game of Death, Bey Logan audio commentary disc one  | medium  Hong Kong Legends, UK | date 2051 Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports the film as holding an overall 75% approval rating based on 8 reviews, of these six were fresh and two were rotten.Gator McKlusky  has been just released from prison following the events of White Lightning and is living in the Okefenokee Swamp with his father and daughter. Federal agents know that he is still making moonshine with his father  and Suzie  and use this information to coerce him into assisting them to catch a corrupt politician.In 1881 in Old Fort Sumner, New Mexico, William H. Bonney, known as Billy the Kid , is passing the time with friends shooting chickens for fun. An old friend of Billy's, Pat Garrett , rides into town with Deputy Sheriff J.W. Bell ([[Matt Clark  and joins the diversion. Later, over drinks, Garrett informs Billy that the electorate want him out of the country, and that in five days, when he becomes Sheriff of Lincoln County, he'll make him leave. Six days later, Garrett and his deputies surround the small farmhouse where Billy and his gang are holed up. In the ensuing gun battle, Charlie Bowdre  and several other men on both sides are killed, and Billy is taken prisoner. As Billy awaits his execution in the Lincoln County Jail for the killing of Buckshot Roberts, he is taunted and beaten by self-righteous Deputy Sheriff Bob Ollinger  while the hangman's gallows are being built nearby. After J.W. Bell intervenes, Ollinger leaves to get a drink. Billy finds a gun hidden for him in the outhouse and gets the drop on Bell, shooting him in the back. He quickly retrieves Ollinger's shotgun loaded with "sixteen thin dimes" and shoots Ollinger dead in the street, saying, "Keep the change, Bob." After Garrett recruits a new deputy sheriff named Alamosa Bill Kermit , he rides to Santa Fe to meet with Gov. Lew Wallace  who introduces him to several powerful men from the Santa Fe Ring. They offer him a thousand dollars for the capture of Billy the Kid, but Garrett rejects their money, saying he will bring him in anyway. Meanwhile, Bill returns to his gang at Old Fort Sumner where he decides to lay back for a few days. Soon after his arrival, Billy is confronted by three strangers looking to kill him; all three are killed in the subsequent shootout, helped by another stranger named Alias  who kills one of the men with a knife through the neck. Alias had witnessed Billy's escape from the Lincoln County Jail. Meanwhile, Garrett meets up with Sheriff Colin Baker  hoping he can provide information on Billy's whereabouts. Garrett, Baker, and his wife  go to arrest some of Billy's old gang, and in the gunfight that follows, the gang members are killed and Baker is mortally wounded. Garrett looks on as Baker's wife comforts the dying lawman as he waits to die by a river. Later that evening, Garrett watches a barge floating down a river with a man shooting bottles in the water. Garrett shoots at one bottle and the two face each other briefly from a distance before lowering their rifles. Soon after, Garrett is joined by John W. Poe ([[John Beck  who works for the Santa Fe Ring. The two ride southwest to meet John Chisum, a wealthy cattle baron in the region, who informs them that Billy has been rustling his cattle again and killed some of his men. Billy once worked for Chisum. Anticipating Garrett's arrival in Old Fort Sumner, Billy's friend Paco  and his family leave for Old Mexico, soon followed by Billy. Along the way, he stops at the Horrell Trading Post, which is owned by an old friend. By chance, Horrell is hosting Garrett's new deputy, Alamosa Bill. After they finish eating, Billy and Alamosa step outside and take the ten paces, and Billy shoots Alamosa dead. The deputy's last words are, "At least I'll be remembered." As Billy continues south toward Old Mexico, he comes across some of Chisum's men murdering his friend Paco and raping his wife. Billy shoots them dead, and after Paco dies in his arms, Billy heads back to Old Fort Sumner. Garrett meets up with three members of Billy's gang at a saloon owned by Lemuel Jones . After killing Holly ([[Richard Bright , he tells Alias to give Billy a message that they had "a little drink together." Sometime later, at a brothel in Roswell, Garrett learns that Billy is back in Old Fort Sumner. Garrett enlists the help of Roswell Sheriff Kip McKinney  and together with John W. Poe, the three men ride north. Garrett, McKinney, and Poe arrive outside Old Fort Sumner and wait until dark before moving in. Billy and Maria  bed down in Pete Maxwell's extra bunk. While McKinney and Poe wait nearby, Garrett approaches the house, and hearing them make love, he waits outside on the porch. Later when Billy steps outside to get something to eat, Garrett enters Maxwell's house from a side door and waits in the darkness for his prey. After spotting the strangers outside the house, Billy goes back inside, sees Garrett and smiles. Garrett raises his gun and fires a bullet at Billy hitting him above the heart killing him, and then shoots his own image in a mirror. Garrett spends the night watching over the body of his old friend. The next morning, the townspeople of Old Fort Sumner gather to see the lifeless body of William H. Bonney. Sheriff Pat Garrett mounts his horse and rides out of town, with a small boy throwing stones at him. Twenty-eight years later in 1909 near Las Cruces, New Mexico, Garrett is riding with some associates when he is ambushed and killed by men working for the Santa Fe Ring, a group of powerful attorneys and land speculators.This framing device was not included in the theatrical version of the film.A fading family-owned automobile manufacturer and its owners pin their hopes for a return to profitability on a new model named for the great-granddaughter of the firm's founder. The aging Loren Hardeman Sr. remains the titular head of a Detroit automotive conglomerate.  His grandson, Loren Hardeman III, now runs the company as president, but has diversified into other fields and is concerned that the auto division is not as lucrative as it once was and might even need to be eliminated. A young auto racer, Angelo Perino, has been secretly commissioned to develop a ground-breaking fuel-efficient car. He juggles romantic relationships with a British royal, Lady Bobby Ayres, and the young Betsy, who is about to turn 21 and inherit a fortune, including the new car her great-grandfather is naming in her honor. Loren Hardeman III bitterly despises Hardeman Sr., who once carried on an affair with Loren's mother. The older Hardeman is not the man he used to be, but neither is he ready to step aside forever.Kevin Harrison , an arms dealer, attempts to destroy an American-owned Concorde on its maiden flight after one of the passengers, Maggie Whelan , learns of his weapons sales to communist countries during the Cold War. The Concorde takes off from Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris. Captain Paul Metrand  makes conversation with Isabelle , the purser. They land at Dulles Airport. Maggie Whalen  recaps the arrival of the Concorde and reports on the "Goodwill" flight on the Concorde the following day, which leads to a story of future boyfriend Kevin Harrison  and his Buzzard missile project. Carl Parker shows up at Maggie's house with a claim about documentation of illegal arms deals. Carl is shot before a passerby triggers a fire alarm, scaring the assailant away. Capt. Joe Patroni introduces himself to Captain Metrand. The next morning, Maggie tells Harrison about her ordeal and the rumor of documents. Kevin claims someone is framing him. He sends Maggie off in a limo while he waits for his business partner Willie Halpern to arrive. Kevin tells Willie that Parker is dead, but they do not have the documents. Kevin asks what time the next launch of the Buzzard is. Willie replies 6:30; Kevin wants it delayed until 8:00 and the drone test reprogrammed. Paul and Joe board the Concorde. It is difficult to determine the Pilot-in-Command as both of them are captains. Peter O'Neill ([[David Warner , the 2nd officer and flight engineer, is living with a controlling girlfriend. Kevin surprises Maggie at the airline check-in desk to see her off. He asks if the documents showed up, but they have not. As he is walking away, Carl Parker's wife delivers the documents to Maggie as she steps on the mobile lounge. She looks them over on the lounge and realizes that Kevin lied to her. The Concorde takes off from Washington/Dulles enroute to Paris where, unbeknownst to the flight crew, an off-course SAM is headed straight for them. At company headquarters, Kevin tells his controllers to alert the government. The USAF scrambles F-15 fighter jets to intercept the missile just as it locks onto the Concorde. An F-15 shoots down the missile before it collides with the Concorde. As the Concorde is approaching the European coastline, an F-4 Phantom sent by Harrison engages the Concorde as French Air Force Mirages scramble to help the Concorde. The Mirages shoot down the F-4 and the Concorde continues to Paris, although to Le Bourget instead of Charles de Gaulle. The Concorde reaches the French coastline, landing with a damaged hydraulic system and just barely stopping at the last safety net. Captain Metrand and Isabelle invite Joe to dinner. Kevin arrives at de Gaulle, where an associate meets him, stating that he has another plan. Joe, Paul and Isabelle meet for dinner with a date for Joe as promised by Paul. Maggie meets Kevin for dinner. He promises to go public with the documents but attempts to bribe Maggie into "polishing" his statement. After being paid by Kevin, a mechanic, Rollie, places a device in the Concorde's cargo door control unit, timed to open during flight. As the passengers board the Concorde, a well-dressed woman  attempts to smuggle a dog aboard. She is caught by an alert Isabelle and leaves the aircraft. Inside the terminal, Rollie is in line at the security checkpoint when his money falls out of his pant leg. The x-ray technician attempts to return it, but Rollie pretends not to hear and runs off. The security guard tells his partner to call security before chases Rollie. Rollie runs onto the runway where the Concorde is taking off. The aircraft's wake scatters the money he received from Kevin. The aircraft is en route to Moscow when the automatic device opens the cargo door. When Captain Metrand investigates, he sees the carpet tear down the middle of the aisle, signifying the fuselage is under tremendous stress and the aircraft is about to break apart. The cargo door is ripped off, extensively damaging the aircraft and ripping the floor of the cabin from the aircraft as it spirals toward the ground. The airline founder's seat lodges in the hole, acting as a plug. The pilots attempt to fly to Innsbruck for an emergency landing, but realize they do not have enough fuel. Paul realizes they are flying towards a ski area he used to go to in the Alps; they could make a gear-up landing on a mountain-side. The aircraft approaches the landing site while the ski patrol marks a runway. The aircraft lands successfully. Maggie gives a report of the accident to a news reporter and gives details about a major story she is about to release. Kevin hears the newscast and commits suicide. At the crash site, the last of the crew leaves the aircraft shortly before fuselage caves in and explodes from leaking fuel.God appears as a kindly old man to Jerry Landers, an assistant supermarket manager. After some mixups in trying to set up an "interview," He tells Jerry that he has been selected to be His messenger to the modern world, much like a contemporary Moses. A bit timidly at first, Landers dutifully tells the world of his encounters with God becoming a national icon of comedic fodder. Understandably skeptical at first, Landers finds his life turned upside down as theologians attempt to discredit him. For instance, a group of religious leaders challenge him to answer a series of written questions in Aramaic while locked in a hotel room alone to prove God is directly contacting him. To Jerry's profound relief after an agonizing wait, God arrives and answers the questions. Eventually, Jerry decides to prove his story in a court of law, after being sued for slander by a charismatic preacher that God directed Jerry to call a "phony". Jerry argues that if God's existence is a reasonable possibility, then if He chooses he can materialize and sit in the witness chair. At first, God fails to appear, and the judge threatens to charge Jerry with contempt for "what you apparently thought was a clever stunt." Jerry argues that his point was that when he brought up the mere possibility that God would make a personal appearance, everyone clearly waited a moment to see if it would really happen — proving that he at least deserves the benefit of the doubt. Suddenly, without opening the doors, God appears and asks to be sworn in, concluding the procedure with "So help me Me." "If it please the court, and even if it doesn't please the court, I'm God, your honor." God provides some miracles, first in the form of a few rather impressive card tricks for the judge. Then, to help the people believe, he leaves the stand, walks a few steps and, with everyone watching, literally disappears before their eyes. His disembodied voice then issues a parting shot: "It can work. Don't hurt each other. If it's hard to have faith in me, maybe it will help to know that I have faith in you." Jerry has lost his job, but God assures him that he's in "good hands". God gets ready to leave and is not coming back. Jerry then asks what if he needs to talk with him. God says to him "I'll tell you what, you talk. I'll listen". He then disappears. Jerry smiles as God departs.The Helios 7 space probe is sent on a mission to study the planet Jupiter. While on its outward journey to the gas giant, the probe is overtaken by the Space Amoeba, a parasitic extraterrestrial. The probe returns to earth and crashes into the South Pacific, where the Amoeba leaves the device and inhabits the body of a cuttlefish, causing it to mutate into what is called "Gezora." The tentacled kaiju begins attacking ships and islands in the area. A photographer named Kudo and his entourage land on Selga Island for a photoshoot, but their camp is attacked by Gezora. Because of its mutation the creature can create extremely cold temperatures with its body. When the survivors discover that Gezora is vulnerable to high temperatures, Kudo and his friends use a leftover Japanese World War II munitions bunker to set fire to the monster. Severely burned, the creature retreats to the water where it dies. Later, the Space Amoeba possesses a stone crab, mutating it into "Ganimes" and attacks the surrounding islands. Luckily the humans manage to lour Ganimes into a pit and destroy it with explosives. The Amoeba survies a second time and fleas into the surrounding jungles plotting its revenge. Space Amoeba decides to control two earth creatures this time. Another Ganimes, and a rock turtle named "Kamoebas." The two monsters raid the human camp. Luckily Kudo realizes the two monsters' weakness: supersonic waves. By releasing a storm of bats, the Amoeba loses control of its creations. Ganimes and Komoebas, no long under control, go beserk and begin to battle as Japanese giant monsters do. The humans, using more explosives, cause the volcano to erupt, engulfing the Space Amoeba and the two monsters.The story takes place in and around Whoville, on a night known as "Grinch Night", which commences when a "Sour-Sweet Wind" blows and sets off a variety of animal calls that annoys The Grinch into terrorizing the Whos. As the story opens, the Sour-Sweet Wind is just beginning to blow when Euchariah, a polite little Who with a slight astigmatism, goes to use the outhouse , but is swept away to Mt. Crumpit by the wind. On the road he encounters the Grinch, who is busy picking Brickles out of his rear after failing to hunt down the "Wuzzy Woozoo". Along with the Grinch's dog, Max, who is in the process of bringing a large wagon — called the "Paraphernalia Wagon" — down to Whoville. Euchariah decides to keep the Grinch from reaching Whoville by stalling him. On the first two occasions the Grinch contemptuously dismisses him by saying that Euchariah "isn't worth a first-class Grinching," but after Euchariah's persistence, the Grinch decides that he's had enough of the little Who and invites him to take a closer look at the Paraphernalia Wagon. When Euchariah does so, the Grinch opens up the wagon and a cloud of green smoke with Grinch-like eyes emerges and ensnares him. Inside the wagon, Euchariah is confronted by surreal imagery, numerous monsters  and the Grinch's mocking voice. Though scared out of his wits, Euchariah bravely keeps on his toes long enough for the Sour-Sweet Wind to die down, thus forcing the Grinch to pack up and retire to his cave; Max on the other hand, who had been abused and overworked by the Grinch, goes home with Euchariah. Back in Whoville, the residents  celebrate the little Who's courage in preventing the Grinch releasing the Paraphernalia Wagon's full horrors on their town, and up in the mountains the Grinch, who is hauling the wagon home himself, ominously notes that one day soon the Sour-Sweet Wind will blow once more, and it will be Grinch Night all over again.The film depicts the nuclear arms race that took place between all sides in the Second World War and the beginning of the Cold War. The first part centers on the war years, dealing with the Manhattan Project and the American effort to beat the Germans to the bomb, as well as with Stalin's decision that the USSR must have its own atomic project. The second part displays the Soviet post-war nuclear program. The plot deals mainly with the personal dilemmas facing all the scientists who worked on the atomic weapons.A privately owned luxury Boeing 747-100, Stevens' Flight 23  complete with piano bar, office, and bedroom, is used to ferry invited guests to an estate owned by wealthy philanthropist Philip Stevens . Valuable artwork from Stevens's private collection is also on board the jetliner, to be eventually displayed in his new museum. Such a collection motivates a group of thieves led by co-pilot Bob Chambers  to hijack the aircraft in the hopes of landing it on an abandoned airfield on St. George Island. Once Captain Don Gallagher  leaves the cockpit and is knocked unconscious, the hijackers' plans go into motion. A sleeping gas is released into the cabin and the passengers lose consciousness. Knocking out the flight engineer, Chambers puts the plan in motion, and Stevens' Flight 23 "disappears" into the Bermuda Triangle. Descending to virtual wave-top altitude, Flight 23 heads into a fog bank, reducing visibility to less than a mile. Minutes later, a large offshore drilling platform emerges from the haze, Flight 23 heading straight for it at close to 600 knots.  Chambers pulls back on the yoke in a banking left turn but the engine number 4 clips the derrick, causing the engine to catch fire. Chambers immediately hits the fire extinguishing button and flames are momentarily extinguished. However, because the aircraft is at such a low altitude, the sudden loss of airspeed threatens to stall the airplane. As the engine reignites, Chambers is forced to use another fire-suppression bottle. But by this time, the aircraft stall alarm goes off and the aircraft's tail hits the water. All the passengers wake up, and most start to scream and panic. Chambers is able to pull up, but soon the plane's right wing hits the water again, and the plane lifts into the air for another moment, then hitting the water again. Because of the impact being so hard, the plane becomes grounded in the ocean. Eventually, the plane begins to slip beneath the waves. The ocean bottom is fortunately above the crush-depth of the fuselage. Many of the passengers are injured, some seriously. Two of the would-be thieves are killed in the initial crash. Banker  is in the hold securing the art for the transfer when a cargo container causes a breach of the outer skin, crushing and drowning him. The second fatality is Wilson , who is killed when he is slammed into the flight panel on impact. Since the aircraft was off course, search and rescue efforts are focused in the wrong area. Involved in these efforts are Phillip Stevens and Joe Patroni . The only way to signal rescue efforts to the proper region is to get a signal buoy to the surface in a small dinghy. Captain Gallagher and diver Martin Wallace  enter the main cargo in the attempt, but an unexpected triggering of the hatch crushes Wallace. Gallagher, out of oxygen provided by the reserve mask, makes it to the surface, and activates the beacon after he climbs into the dinghy. Getting a fix on the new signal, an S-3 Viking overflies the crash site, confirming the location of Flight 23. The navy then dispatches a sub-recovery ship, the USS Cayuga along with the destroyer USS Agerholm and a flotilla of other vessels. The aircraft is ringed with balloons and once inflated, the aircraft rises from the bottom of the seafloor. Just before the plane breaks surface, one of the balloons breaks loose, prompting the Navy captain to reduce the air pressure of the remaining balloons, thus keeping the plane just beneath the waves. At that moment, one of the doors in the cargo hold bursts open, causing the plane to flood. The cascade of sea water sweeps through the passengers; First Officer Chambers is killed when he is pinned under a sofa. The deluge also sweeps away Wallace's widow , who drowns just as the Navy captain orders more air pressure into the balloons, finally raising the plane successfully. Once on the surface, the passengers are evacuated. With the survivors on their way to waiting ships, Captain Gallagher and Stevens' assistant, Eve  are the last to evacuate from the aircraft as it slips under the waves for the last time.When the existence of a strain of plague  is revealed at the U.S. mission at the International Health Organization, three terrorists seek to blow up the U.S. mission. Two of them are shot, one mortally, by security personnel but one escapes. The surviving terrorist is hospitalized and quarantined and identified as Swedish. Dr. Elena Stradner  and U.S. Colonel Stephen Mackenzie   argue over the nature of the strain, which Stradner suspects is a biological weapon but which Colonel Mackenzie claims was in the process of being destroyed. The third terrorist escapes and stows away on a transcontinental train bound from Geneva to Stockholm. Dr. Stradner believes that the train should be stopped so that the terrorist can be removed and quarantined, but Col. Mackenzie is concerned that all of the passengers on the train may have been infected. Mackenzie insists on rerouting the train to an abandoned ex-Nazi railroad line to a quarantine camp in Janov, Poland. However the line crosses a dangerously unsound steel arch bridge known as the Kaslindrliv Bridge or Cassandra Crossing, out of use since 1948. Mackenzie understands that the bridge might collapse as the train passes over it. The presence of the infected terrorist, and the rerouting of the train, precipitates the second conflict, among passengers on the train; they include Dr. Jonathan Chamberlain , a famous neurologist, his ex-wife Jennifer Rispoli Chamberlain , and Nicole Dressler , the wife of a German arms dealer. She is embroiled in an affair with her young companion Robby Navarro. Navarro is a heroin trafficker being pursued by FBI agent Haley, who is traveling undercover as a priest. Mackenzie informs Dr. Chamberlain of the presence of the stowaway, who is found, but attempts to remove the stowaway via a helicopter are unsuccessful because the train enters a tunnel. Chamberlain is also told that the plague has a 60% mortality rate. Mackenzie, however, informs passengers that police have received reports of anarchist bombs placed along the rail line, and that the train will be rerouted to Nuremberg. There the train is sealed with an enclosed oxygen system and a U.S. Army medical team is placed aboard, with the now-deceased stowaway being placed in a hermetically-sealed coffin. Dr. Chamberlain learns of the risk of the Cassandra Crossing. He also begins to suspect the disease is not as serious as originally thought: few of the passengers have become infected and few of those have actually died. He radios MacKenzie suggesting the infected portion of the train be uncoupled and isolated, but MacKenzie has no intention of stopping the train: if the expected Cassandra Crossing collapse occurs, it will neatly cover the fact that the U.S has been harboring germ warfare agents in a neutral country. Passengers on the train work alone to stop the train before it reaches the Cassandra Crossing. The passengers manage to seize the back half of the train roughly one km before the bridge and detach it, hoping that with less weight, the front half will cross safely. But the bridge collapses, killing everyone aboard the front half. The back end applies the brakes and stops just before reaching the downed bridge. In Geneva, both Stradner and MacKenzie depart: she keeps hope of survivors while he thinks the elimination of the train means no investigations. A guard on duty orders both of them be watched.Small-time pimp Luca Canali  is hunted by both local mobsters and two killers  sent by the New York mafia after a shipment of heroin fails to arrive. But it becomes apparent he is not as soft as he appears as a deadly cat-and-mouse game is played out on the streets of Milan. The film contains a dramatic chase scene where Canali pursues an assassin both on car and on foot. The two American hitmen have contrasting personalities. Dave  is something of a playboy and loudmouth, while Frank  is quiet and professional. The concept of two hitmen teamed up, one black and one white, appears to have been a likely inspiration for the characters played by John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson in Pulp Fiction.Italian B-Movies: Tarantino's inspirationAs the film begins, Jonathan Livingston Seagull is soaring through the sky hoping to travel at a speed more than 60 miles per hour. Eventually, with luck he is able to break that barrier, but when Jonathan returns to his own flock he is greeted with anything but applause. The Elders of the flock shame Jonathan for doing things the other seagulls never dare to do. Jonathan pleads to stay and claims that he wants to share his newfound discovery with everybody, but the Elders dismiss him as an outcast, and he is banished from the flock. Jonathan goes off on his own, believing that all hope is lost. However, he is soon greeted by mysterious seagulls from other lands who assure him that his talent is a unique one, and with them Jonathan is trained to become independent and proud of his beliefs. Eventually, Jonathan himself ends up becoming a mentor for other seagulls who are suffering the same fates in their own flocks as he once did.Jerry Bolanti , a mafia-connected hoodlum, is released from jail and needs a job. Soon after he is released from jail he has sex with a plumber's wife. He pays a visit to his friend's restaurant and becomes a debt collector, and his first job is to collect from Bernie Feldshuh. Meanwhile, two other debt collectors that work together, Joe  and Serge , have a third collector, named Butchie, killed. Joe, the leader of the debt collecting duo, employs Jerry as the new leader. They raid a shop manager, steal $40,000, and then rent a hotel room. While Jerry is down stairs in the hotel restaurant a hitman shoots Serge to death, while Serge is on the toilet. Jerry hunts down the hitman, chases him into a field and shoots him with a shotgun in the torso twice. The collector is looking for a caravan for his girlfriend and he in a junkyard and is shot more than 20 times by three hitmen.The film is set in a teaching hospital in Manhattan and centers around Dr. Bock , the Chief of Medicine, whose life is in disarray: his wife has left him, his children don't talk to him, and his once-beloved teaching hospital is falling apart. The hospital suffers from the sudden deaths of two doctors and a nurse. These are attributed to coincidental or unavoidable failures to provide accurate treatment. At the same time, administrators must deal with a protest against the hospital's annexation of an adjacent and decrepit apartment building. The annexation is to be used for a drug rehabilitation center; the building's current occupants demand that the hospital find them replacement housing before the building is demolished despite the building being condemned sometime before. As Dr. Bock complains of impotence and has thoughts of suicide, he falls for Barbara Drummond , a patient's daughter who both came from Mexico for her father's treatment. This temporarily gives Dr. Bock something to live for after Barbara confronts him. The deaths are discovered to have initiated by Barbara's father, as retribution for the "inhumanity" of modern medical treatment. Drummond's victims would have been saved if they'd received prompt, appropriate treatment -- but they didn't. Dr. Bock and Barbara use a final, accidental death of a doctor at the hospital to cover Drummond's tracks, while Barbara takes her father back to JFK airport to escape back to Mexico; leaving Dr. Bock at his insistence to try and organize the chaotic Hospital. It was filmed at Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York.Murders taking place on the back lot of Worldwide Studios turn out to be the work of a disfigured actor who has been living there for years and will stop at nothing to cease the sale of the back lot to developers. The film seems to place a lot of emphasis on the chalk outline and one character is even heard to quip, "We're going to be running out of chalk," while standing over a murder scene in a dry pool on the set.The film follows Jay Jay , a former hair dresser who has become a drug addict. He lives his new life by doing deals for Vivian  from time to time. One day he meets Parm , a free spirited girl. The two fall in love. Jay Jay's drug habit grows, and he soon resorts to robbery. On the threat of arrest, he works alongside two dirty policemen by becoming a narc, and reports on his former fellow junkies. Yet, as the movie continues, Jay Jay sinks deeper into turmoil with feelings of self-hatred.After a US government satellite crashes near the town of Piedmont, New Mexico, a microbe attached to the satellite kills all but two of the town's inhabitants — a sixty-two-year-old man and an infant. Some of those who died show signs of having first gone mad. The mechanism of death is massive clotting and granulation of every drop of blood in their bodies. An elite scientific team takes the satellite into a secret underground laboratory in the Nevada desert, known as the Wildfire Complex, in order to study it. The new life form is assigned the code name Andromeda. Within a couple of days the microbe mutates into a form that degrades synthetic rubber gaskets and thus escapes containment. This triggers an automatic self-destruct mechanism designed to set off a nuclear explosion beneath the complex, eradicating all germs before they can reach the surface. However, the scientists learn that the alien microbes, having evolved in the harsh environment of outer space, would thrive on the radiation of a nuclear explosion and would consequently be able to mutate into a supercolony of an untold number of forms. Meanwhile, scientists have discovered how to really defeat the microbes. To stop the explosion and save the world, one scientist races to shut down the bomb before it can detonate.{{Plot}} former professional weightlifter, and Connie Shokner , a fearsome serial killer and martial arts expert. With the help of the clever Caretaker ([[James Hampton , veteran former professional player Nate Scarborough , "Granny" Granville , long-term prisoner Pop ([[John Steadman  — who remains in prison far past his original sentence for having struck Warden Hazen when the warden was just a rookie guard — and the warden's amorous secretary, Miss Toot , Crewe molds the prisoners into a smoothly working football team named the "Mean Machine". Before the game, an arsonist named Unger , schemes to kill Crewe by setting off an incendiary device in his cell. Caretaker is killed in the blaze in Crewe's cell after he goes there to retrieve X-rays for Crewe, who is sitting in Caretaker's cell with Nate. As the game starts, the "Mean Machine" does well, and at halftime the game is close, with the guards leading, 15-13. Cornering Crewe in the locker room, Hazen berates him for trying to win the game and tells Crewe that he has Unger in custody and that he is willing to testify that Crewe was an accessory to Caretaker's murder unless Crewe loses the game to the guards by at least 21 points. Crewe reluctantly and angrily agrees, but obtains a promise from Hazen that if he cooperates, the other prisoners will not be harmed. However, Hazen tells Captain Knauer to order his players to "inflict as much physical punishment on the prisoners as humanly possible" as soon as they are ahead by 21 points. Crewe quickly makes several deliberate mistakes putting the "Mean Machine" down by more than three touchdowns, 35-13, then takes himself out of the game. With the prisoners demoralized, the guards then take out their anger on the prisoners, causing several injuries. At this point, a depressed Crewe asks Pop if it had been worth it — trading the opportunity to punch the warden in exchange for a life sentence he didn't deserve. Pop states that, for himself at least, it was, and Crewe goes back into the game with a renewed sense of purpose. At first, the prisoners are angry with Crewe and provide him with no protection or co-operation, but he convinces them of his change of mind, and with the help of two quick touchdowns followed by a drop kick field goal, gets the "Mean Machine" back into the game, trailing by only five points, 35-30. Nate, despite his bad knee, goes into the game to score one of the touchdowns, and, after doing so, is immediately cut down at the knees by guard Bogdanski , crippling him. However, by this time the prisoners have rallied and their spirit cannot be broken as they have turned the tables on the guards in terms of the violence, including a clothesline from Samson that apparently breaks a guard's neck, while Crewe deliberately and repeatedly throws the ball as hard as possible at Bogdanski's genitals. Driving downfield for the game-winning score, a running play up the middle is stuffed and Crewe calls the team's final timeout with seven seconds remaining in the game and the prisoners with the ball on the guards' one-yard line - the "longest yard" of the title. Crewe walks off the field to the sideline and his teammates begin to follow. Crewe gathers them together for a last moment of reflection and steeling of their resolve. In a long slow-motion sequence, Crewe takes the final snap, dodges several defenders in the backfield and hurdles yet others into the end zone. Scoring the winning touchdown with no time left, the "Mean Machine" wins, 36-35. As the prisoners and the crowd celebrate, Warden Hazen is furious. Crewe walks across the field in what appears to be an attempt to mingle with the crowd and escape. Hazen sees this and orders Knauer to shoot Crewe by yelling "Shoot him! Kill him!". A very tense few moments ensue as Knauer trains his rifle on Crewe and repeately yells, "Crewe! Crewe!" as Crewe continues to walk away. A moment before possibly being shot, Crewe bends over and picks up the game ball and begins to walk back towards Hazen. Realizing that he was ordered to shoot a man who was simply retrieving a ball, Knauer disgustedly looks at the warden and says, "Game ball". Crewe then arrives back to Hazen, hands him the game ball and tells him to "Stick this in your trophy case."Max Dembo , lifelong thief, is released from a six-year stint in prison and forced to report to a boorish and condescending parole officer, Earl . One of the conditions of parole is that Max find a job. At the employment agency, he meets Jenny Mercer , who helps him land scale-wage work at a can factory. Jenny accepts his invitation to dinner, where it's clear that she is smitten by this worldly and seemingly gentle ex-con. Earl pays a surprise visit to Max's room, finding a book of matches that Max's friend Willy  recently used to cook heroin. Although Max clearly has no track marks or other signs of drug abuse, he is handcuffed and dragged back to jail, out of a job and a home. Jenny visits him and gives him her number to call when he gets out. After blood tests prove he's clean, Max is picked up by a smug Earl, who feels he actually gave Max a break by not pursuing the fact that someone had been using drugs in his place of residence, which would result in three more years in prison. During their car ride to a halfway house, Earl pushes Max to name the user. Max, realizing he will never get a break, decides to pummel Earl, take control of his car, and handcuff him to a highway divider fence with his pants around his ankles. This stunt makes a straight life impossible. Max returns to a life of crime, robbing a Korean grocery store and planning bigger heists with some willing old accomplices. After successfully robbing a bank together, Max and his friend Jerry  decide to up the ante and clean out a Beverly Hills jewelry store. The job is botched when Max takes too long in trying to steal everything. Willy, acting as getaway driver, panics and takes off, leaving Max and Jerry to flee on foot as police convene on the store. Jerry is shot and dies, while Max shoots a police officer. Max escapes with the loot, settles the score with Willy by killing him, and escapes L.A. with a loyal Jenny by his side. Outside the city limits, though, Max has second thoughts as to their prospects on the lam. He decides to leave Jenny at a gas station for her own good, telling her he will be caught no matter what as he drives away.The Sultan of Zanzibar has a harbor infested with sharks, which makes it impossible for ships to trade with him. In an attempt to fix the problem, he brings twelve hippos into the harbor to keep the sharks away. His idea works well enough, but once the hippos are no longer a novelty and the people no longer feed them, they begin to starve. After the hungry hippos rampage through the city looking for food, Aban-Khan, the king's adviser, slaughters all the hippos except one, a little hippo named Hugo. Hugo escapes across the sea to the city of Dar es Salaam, on the African mainland. A group of children find Hugo and attempt to hide him as best they can, building a garden to feed and take care of him. However, Hugo is discovered and the garden is burned to prevent the children wasting their time with him and neglecting their schoolwork. Hugo is forced to scavenge from the local farms for food, and is put on trial for the damage his nighttime raids caused. Fortunately, the children manage to contact the Sultan who agrees to appear in court to speak for Hugo. The ruler makes a powerfully impassioned speech about how the hippos were mistreated both by their neglect and their uncalled for culling, which removes all doubt that Hugo is the true injured party in this affair. As a result, the hippo is released and the children agree to care for the hippo for the rest of his days.Earth has been devastated by a nuclear war instigated by five terrorists, and it has taken two million years for the radioactive clouds to once again allow sunlight to reach the surface. Only a handful of humans have survived, while the rest have changed into mutants who roam the radioactive wastelands. In the idyllic land of Montagar, the true ancestors of humans – fairies, elves, and dwarves – have returned and live in peace. During a celebration of 3,000 years of peace, Delia, queen of the fairies, falls into a trance and leaves the party. Puzzled, the fairies follow her to her home and discover that she has given birth to twin wizards. Avatar, a kind and good wizard, spends much of his boyhood entertaining his mother with beautiful visions, while Blackwolf, a mutant, never visits his mother, but spends his time torturing small animals. After many years, Delia dies. Blackwolf is excited; he believes he will take over her leadership and rule the land. Avatar opposes his evil brother and forces him to fight for the kingship. Avatar's magic is empowered by his grief, allowing him to defeat Blackwolf, who leaves Montagar with a vow to return and "make this a planet where mutants rule". Years later, Blackwolf has risen to be Führer of Scortch, where he salvages and restores ancient technology. He tries to attack Montagar twice, but is foiled both times when his mutant warriors become bored or sidetracked in the midst of battle. Blackwolf then discovers an old projector and reels of Nazi propaganda footage. He enhances the projector with magical power and uses it in battle to both inspire his own soldiers and horrify enemy troops. The mutants destroy the elf army, who are too frightened by the visions to fight back.  Meanwhile, in Montagar, Avatar has become a tutor tasked with training the president's daughter Elinore to become a full-fledged fairy. Suddenly, the president is assassinated by Necron 99, a robot sent by Blackwolf to kill believers in magic. Elinore flies into a rage at the death of her father, and Avatar confronts the robot and battles it using telepathy. Necron 99 loses the desire for war and Avatar changes the robot's name to Peace. Avatar learns from the robot that the "dream machine" – the projector – is Blackwolf's secret weapon, inspiring his armies with images of ancient warfare. Avatar, Elinore, Peace, and the elf spy Weehawk set out to destroy the projector and save the world from another Holocaust. In a forest inhabited by fairies, Peace has an intuition that something is amiss shortly before the group is accosted by the leader of the fairies, Sean . Weehawk realizes that Peace is missing, when an unseen assassin kills Sean and kidnaps Elinore. Avatar and Weehawk begin to search for Elinore in the forbidden Fairy Sanctuary, but Weehawk falls into a chasm and insists that Avatar leaves him and finds the girl. Weehawk is rescued from a giant poison gas-breathing mutant insect by Peace, who shoots it dead after dealing with his assassin comrades. As Weehawk rests, exhausted from the battle, Avatar locates Elinore, who has been captured by fairies and small human-like creatures, and is about to be killed. Avatar attempts to explain that they did not kill Sean, but the fairies don't believe him, and shoot him with an arrow. Wounded in the shoulder, Avatar refuses to fight back, which impresses the fairy king. Instead of executing them, he merely teleports Avatar and Elinore to a snowy mountaintop. Avatar and Elinore resume their journey despite the poor conditions, but they soon realize they are wandering in circles. Weehawk and Peace finally find them and together they find their way out of the mountains. Soon Avatar and the others encounter the encamped army of an elf General who is preparing to attack Scortch the following day, but Blackwolf launches a sneak attack that night. Elinore is outside with Peace when one of Blackwolf's mutants sneaks into camp and attacks her, but Avatar is able to stop it before it hurts her. Things turn for the worse, though, as a battle tank arrives to destroy the camp. Peace manages to disable the crew, but as he inspects the vehicle, Elinore kills him with a sword and climbs into the tank. It drives away as Avatar and Weehawk watch in confusion. The next day, Avatar and Weehawk enter Scortch by ship and make for Blackwolf's castle while the General leads his elf warriors in a bloody battle to distract Blackwolf's forces. The pair splits up, Weehawk tracking Elinore while Avatar goes after his brother Blackwolf. Weehawk nearly kills Elinore, but she explains that Blackwolf has been controlling her mind ever since she first touched Peace. Blackwolf declares his magic superior to Avatar's and demands his surrender. Avatar admits that he hasn't practiced magic in some time, and offers to show Blackwolf one last trick that their mother showed him when Blackwolf wasn't around; he then pulls a gun and fatally shoots Blackwolf. With the loss of their leader, the mutants give up fighting. With Montagar's safety secured, Weehawk returns home, but Avatar and Elinore decide to go start their own kingdom instead.The film opens with Buddy Holly's beginnings as a teenager in Lubbock, Texas and his emergence into the world of rock and roll with his fictional good friends and bandmates, drummer Jesse Charles  and bass player Ray Bob Simmons , soon to be known as The Crickets. Their first break comes when they are brought to Nashville, Tennessee to record, but Buddy's vision soon clashes with the producers' rigid ideas of how the music should sound and he walks out. Eventually, he finds a more flexible producer, Ross Turner , who, after listening to their audition, very reluctantly allows Buddy and the Crickets to make music the way they want. While there, he meets Turner's secretary, Maria Elena Santiago . His budding romance with her nearly ends before it can begin, when her aunt initially refuses to let her date him, but Buddy persuades her to change her mind. On their very first date, Maria accepts his marriage proposal and they are soon wed. A humorous episode results from a misunderstanding in one of their early bookings. Sol Gittler  signs them up sight-unseen for the famous Apollo Theater in Harlem, assuming from their music that they're a black band. When three white Texans show up instead, he is stunned, but unwilling to pay them for doing nothing, he nervously lets them perform and prays fervently that the all-black audience doesn't riot at the sight of the first all-white band to play there.  After an uncomfortable start and an initially hostile crowd, Buddy's songs soon win them over and the Crickets are a tremendous hit. Gitler books them to come back several times. After two years, Ray Bob and Jesse decide to break up the band, feeling overshadowed by Buddy and not wanting to relocate to New York City. Initially, he is saddened by their departure, but he soldiers on. When Maria announces that she is pregnant, Buddy is delighted. On February 2, 1959, preparing for a concert at Clear Lake, Iowa, Holly decides to charter a private plane to fly to Moorhead, Minnesota for his next big concert. The Big Bopper and Ritchie Valens join him on the flight. Meanwhile, the Crickets, feeling nostalgic, appear unexpectedly at Maria's door, expressing their desire to reunite the band. They plan to surprise Buddy at his next tour stop. After playing his final song, "Not Fade Away", Holly bids the crowd farewell with "Thank you Clear Lake! C'mon. We love you. We'll see you next year". A caption then reveals the deaths of Holly, Valens, and the Bopper in a plane crash that night...and the rest is Rock and Roll.The film stars Dean Jones as returning champion race car driver Jim Douglas, joined by his riding mechanic, Wheely Applegate . Together with Herbie, the "Love Bug", a 1963 Volkswagen Beetle, they are participating in the fictional Trans-France Race, from Paris, France to Monte Carlo, Monaco, in which they hope to stage a racing comeback.  In the Trans-France Race itself, Douglas and Herbie have three major opponents: *Bruno von Stickle : He is a dark-haired, moustached German driver with experience in the "European Racing Circuit". His car was a powerful Porsche 917 clone painted in the colors of the German national flag, and bearing the number 17. In fact, as referred in the movie, the kit car is a Lazer 917 GT coupé with numerous components including the engine and chassis from the Beetle. Von Stickle is deemed to be a formidable contender prior to and during the race. *Claude Gilbert  on the hood and the sides. His dominance in the race seemed similar to that of von Stickle until he crashed in the later stages. *Diane Darcy : She is a very pretty, if somewhat icy, young woman with strawberry blonde hair and hazel eyes who initially hates Jim for his and Herbie's incompetence that ruined her chances during the qualifying rounds. Diane's race car is a powder-blue 1976 Lancia Scorpion with yellow and white stripes, as well as a racing number #7. Hers is a car with whom Herbie falls in love during the film. However, Diane does not appear to believe in cars with minds of their own; thinking this was merely an excuse for what she believed as an act of possible misogyny or sexism from Jim. The only female driver in the race, Ms. Darcy is ostensibly a rookie driver, although her level of racing experience is never discussed in the movie. Relatively little was seen of her performance in the Trans-France Race itself. Diane and the Lancia crash into a lake towards the end of the race, but Herbie, Jim, and Wheely save them from drowning. She soon changes her attitude toward Jim after he saves her life and she witnesses Herbie towing her Lancia out of the lake. All three watch as Herbie crawls next to the Lancia and the two cars hold doors like holding hands. When Herbie seems to have trouble restarting, Diane knows cars can have minds of their own because she now knows her own car is alive as well. Diane urges the little car not to relent in the quest for victory in the Trans-France Race , and bids Jim good luck with a light kiss on one cheek. With Diane out of the race , Jim pursues Von Stickle through the streets of Monte Carlo, combatants in a thrilling duel for the win. In the end, though, Bruno von Stickle is overtaken by the little car in the famous tunnel of the Formula One race track, Herbie outracing him by driving upside down on the tunnel roof. Jim drives Herbie to victory for  the 20th time in their careers. As the film progresses, two thieves, Max ([[Bernard Fox  and Quincey , steal the famous Etoile de Joie and cleverly hide the diamond in Herbie's gas tank. It is also revealed that Inspector Bouchet , also known as "Double X / XX", is the mastermind behind the museum robbery, though the fact of his scheme is revealed near the end of the movie. It is the eager young detective Fontenoy , of whom the Inspector is the superior officer, who unravels the mystery of L'Etoile de Joie, and has Bouchet clapped in handcuffs. At the end of the movie, Jim and Diane begin to fall in love, as do Wheely and the Monte Carlo trophy girl . Most of all, Herbie and Giselle  fall in love again as well.Billy Flynn, an ex-boxing champion, is now a horse trainer in Hialeah, Florida. He makes just enough money to raise his little son T.J., who Flynn has custody of his son after his wife Annie left him seven years ago. T.J. worships "The Champ," who has gambling debts and begins working on a comeback to give his boy a better future. Suddenly Annie shows up again and wants to become a part of T.J.'s life.The film follows young Paul Baumer, who during World War I enlists in the Imperial German Army with many of his high school friends, after being indoctrinated by their teacher  as to the glory and superiority of German culture. After surviving training camp under the sadistic Corporal Himmelstoss , the enthusiastic young men board a troop train bound for the front lines. Ominously, at the same moment, they notice another train arriving in town loaded with wounded returning soldiers, who are carried off on stretchers. Once at the front lines, they are placed under the supervision of a pragmatic, yet good-natured older soldier, Stanislaus Katzinsky, called "Kat" . Kat teaches them how to best take cover, how to find extra food, and other survival skills. The film focuses on the suffering and tragedy caused by war, particularly the horrors endured by the young men serving in it. At the beginning, the French and German armies are shown attacking each other repeatedly over a few hundred yards of torn, corpse-strewn land. Paul's weak friend Franz Kemmerich is wounded, and soon dies in a crowded army hospital attended by nuns, which is shown in the film. In spite of being distraught by his friend's death, Paul returns to the trenches with his troop. When a French soldier falls into a crater Paul is hiding in, Paul stabs the man in the stomach with his bayonet, then after spending the night with him, tries to bandage the dying soldier's wounds, after which he dies. Paul escapes the crater feeling terrible for what he has done, and it reflects on the meaninglessness of the war. Another comrade, after falling into a pit of poison gas, is carried off by the medics to a slow, suffering death; the medics had appeared before Kat could give him mercy. The troop's panicked horses, terrified, shriek hysterically as they are surrounded by burning buildings, and artillery fire. When Paul and his battalion return to a French town for a rest week, they see the new recruits have grown younger and younger. To their delight, the leader of these new recruits is their recently demoted training officer, Himmelstoss. When Himmelstoss tries to make them obey him, they stand up to him, leaving him frustrated. Later in the trenches, while the Germans are launching an offensive attack, he sees a squad cowering in a crater, which includes Himmelstoss. Paul pushes Himmelstoss to force him to keep on the offensive. Although at one point, Paul and two of his friends do have their first experience of sex , the vast majority of all the young men's experiences are horrific. One by one, practically all of Paul's other schoolmate friends die, one way or another. A haughty, stiff Kaiser Wilhelm II visits their camp to ceremoniously pin medals on heroic soldiers, which includes Himmelstoss. Paul's squad is attacked in a French Town close to the front, where one of his friends dies and another is severely wounded. Paul, who is also wounded, is granted leave. When home on furlough, Paul is told by his sister that their bedridden mother , is dying of cancer. In visits to a beer garden and his former classroom, Paul realizes that his town's older men, in their enthusiasm for war, have no sense of the horrors they have sent their youth to. He also visits Kemmerich's mother and lies to her that he did not suffer. Just before the end of the film, Kat is wounded by an artillery burst and Paul carries his larger, heavier, older friend many miles to a field hospital . There he finds out that Kat is dead, having been killed by a shell fragment to the head while Paul was carrying him, a few miles before he reached the church. The film ends with Paul writing a letter to his friend , who is now an amputee. He reveals the fate of all of his classmates, some are dead, some are missing, one was caught after deserting, one is mad and he and Paul are the only ones left. When he finishes, he goes to check on the drastically underage replacements , guarding the trench, taking the position of the most experienced man on the battlefield, like Kat was before him. He spots a bird and begins to sketch it, and when the bird starts to fly away Paul stands up more, to see where it went, exposing himself above the trench parapet. A lone sniper's shot rings out, killing him. A telegram with the film's title is shown to the viewer, revealing an infamous segment from a report issued by the German High Command. It also shows how close Baumer had come to surviving the conflict.Boys in the Sand is composed of three segments set on Fire Island. * Bayside: The dark, bearded Peter Fisk walks along the wooded paths of the island until reaching a beach. He strips and sunbathes on a blanket. Suddenly, out in the water, the blond naked Donovan appears and runs up onto the beach to Fisk. Fisk performs oral sex on Donovan, who then leads Fisk into the woods. Fisk grabs the blanket and follows, catching up to Donovan in a clearing. They kiss and touch each other, then Donovan takes a studded leather strap from Fisk's wrist and attaches it around Fisk's genitalia. They continue the scene, with each performing oral sex on the other and Donovan penetrating Fisk. Following Donovan's climax he returns to servicing Fisk orally and, as Fisk is climaxing, momentary flashes of previous scenes are intercut. The scene ends with Fisk taking the strap from his genitals and attaching it around Donovan's wrist. Fisk runs into the ocean and vanishes, mirroring Donovan's entrance. Donovan dons Fisk's abandoned clothes and heads off down the beach. * Poolside: The segment opens with Donovan on a pier, holding a newspaper. He returns to his house, strips by the pool and begins reading. Intrigued by an ad in the back of the paper, Donovan writes a letter in response. After a number of days pass , he receives a reply in the form of a package. Inside is a tablet, which he throws into the pool. The water starts to churn and the dark-haired Danny Di Cioccio emerges to Donovan's delight. The two couple by the pool, with each performing oral sex on the other and Donovan penetrating Di Cioccio in a variety of positions. Di Cioccio turns the tables and tops Donovan until Donovan's climax. The scene closes with the two engaged in horseplay in the pool and then walking off together down a boardwalk. * Inside: This final segment opens with shots of Donovan showering, toweling off and wandering idly around his room, intercut with shots of African-American telephone repairman Tommy Moore checking various poles and lines outside, Donovan spots Moore from his balcony. Moore sees Donovan as well. The remainder of the segment consists of Donovan's fantasized sexual encounters with Moore throughout the house intercut with shots of Donovan sniffing poppers and penetrating himself with a large black dildo. The segment ends following Donovan's climax with the dildo, with the real Moore coming inside the house and closing the door behind them.U.S. Air Force Colonel Pete Moore  is commander of the Whitney Air Force Base Radar Test Group, which has been experiencing electrical difficulties aboard its aircraft. To ferret out the problem, he sends a four-man crew on Flight 412. Shortly into the test, the jet, a small twin-engine VIP transport, picks up three blips on radar, and subsequently, two fighters scramble and mysteriously disappear. At this point, Flight 412 is monitored and forced to land by Digger Control, a top-level military intelligence group that debunks UFO information, at a remote, abandoned military airfield somewhere in the desert in the American Southwest. The crew is taken to a barracks building and undergo an 18-hour debriefing which amounts more to an indoctrination, to convince them that they did not see a UFO. Meanwhile, their plane is stored in a dilapidated hangar, so it cannot be seen by search-and-rescue aircraft. To all appearances, Flight 412 has simply vanished into thin air. The intrepid colonel, kept in the dark about his crew, decides to investigate the matter himself. The film starts out with stock black-and-white clips of UFOs in flight and various individuals reporting sightings in newsreel style, with narrator voice-overs, to set the mood. However, the remainder of the film  deals only briefly with the fictitious UFO encounter by the aircrew, and mostly with their ordeal as they undergo an arduous debriefing and brainwashing at the hands of their somewhat mysterious captors. It uses on-screen time stamp titles to lend the feeling of a documentary, similar to the 1971 film The Andromeda Strain.Crewman Andrew Braddock  survives the wreck of the sailing ship The Lady Vain. After several days at sea in a lifeboat, he reaches the shores of an island governed by the mysterious scientist "Dr. Moreau" . Besides Moreau, the inhabitants of the island include Moreau's associate, Dr. Montgomery ; his deformed servant, M'Ling ; and a young woman named Maria . Though welcomed as an honored guest by Moreau, Braddock finds his contact with the natives increasingly disturbing, for they are not like any men he has ever seen. Eventually, it becomes apparent that these "men" are, in fact, the hybrid products of Moreau's experiments upon various species of wild animals. Braddock finds himself threatened by both the "manimals" and the sinister Moreau. After one of the man-beasts  attacks an animal, breaking the rules that Moreau has established, Moreau intends to take it to the "house of pain", his laboratory, where he will kill the beast for using free will. The beast panics and leads chase,{{huh?}} and Braddock kills it in sympathy. Convinced that Moreau is insane, Braddock plans to leave the island with Maria, with whom he has developed a mutual attraction. They are caught however, and Moreau straps Braddock in his lab, intending to conduct experiments on him. Montgomery objects and Moreau kills him in cold blood. M'Ling and the servant animal women take Montgomery's body into the woods to the man-beasts. While the man-beasts become agitated over Moreau breaking another of the rules , Moreau injects Braddock with a serum that gives him animal characteristics. Braddock becomes more animalistic and struggles to maintain his humanity. The man-beasts storm the compound and in the chaos Moreau is killed after trying to whip his attackers into submission. Braddock, Maria, and M'Ling stall long enough to engineer an escape, but the compound is burned and most of the man-beasts are killed by the wild animals which Moreau kept for his experiments. M'Ling is also killed in the final escape. Braddock and Maria manage to sail away in the lifeboat that Braddock arrived in, but only after a bloody battle with one of the man-beasts who is killed by Braddock with a shovel. Some time later, they are rescued by a passing ship, and the serum has worn off, returning Braddock to his full human state. It also appears that Maria, too, is returning to her true nature.The film follows the antics of head counsellor Tripper Harrison  and the counsellors-in-training  at Camp North Star, a cut-rate summer camp. The main plot involves Rudy Gerner , a lonely kid who is sent to summer camp by his father. Noticing Rudy is unable to fit in, Tripper takes him under his wing and each morning they go jogging and bond as friends. Tripper helps Rudy gain confidence while Rudy encourages Tripper to start a romance with Roxanne , the female head counsellor. Candace  "kidnaps" Crockett  in a speedboat and confesses her feelings for him. Wheels, who had broken up with A.L.  the year before, successfully rekindle their relationship during a dance. The nerdy Spaz  develops a crush on Jackie. Morty Melnick  is the North Star Camp director and the butt of the counsellors' practical jokes. Tripper's favourite gag is invading Morty's cabin in the middle of the night and relocating the deep-sleeping director to unusual places such as in a tree or on the roadside. A subplot deals with the camp's rivalry with the wealthy Camp Mohawk, located across the lake. During a basketball game, North Star is being beaten by Mohawk when they attempt their own perverse form of victory. This sets the stage for the yearly Olympiad held between the camps in which Mohawk carries a 12-0 record. During the first day of competition, Mohawk dominates North Star, cheating in many cases to win. Crockett fails to clear the high jump bar, Hardware gets pummeled in boxing, and Jackie suffers a broken leg in field hockey, thanks to the dirty work of two Mohawk girls. The score at the end of Day One is: Mohawk-170, North Star-63. That evening at the North Star Lodge, Tripper gives a rousing speech, telling demoralized campers that it doesn't matter whether they win or lose. In unison, Camp North Star begins to chant, "It just doesn't matter!" Newly inspired, Day Two of the Olympiad belongs to North Star as they win every event. Wheels outwrestles his opponent, Spaz defeats Rhino in a stacking contest with inspiration from Jackie and a thwarted Mohawk cheating attempt, and after 12 years of defeat Fink finally beats "The Stomach" in the hot dog eating contest. North Star now trails by only 10 points with one event left, a 4-mile cross country run for 20 points. Tripper steps forward and elects a surprised Rudy to compete against Horse , Mohawk's star runner. The many mornings Rudy spent jogging and training with Tripper pay off as he wins the race, giving North Star its first Olympiad victory. Later that evening, Morty, Tripper, Roxanne, and the CITs sing around a campfire and say their final goodbyes as the camp prepares to close for the summer. Roxanne agrees to come live with Tripper and, on a motorcycle, the two of them lead the buses out of camp. The movie ends with Morty in bed on a raft in the lake, then stepping sleepily into the water.Struggling to survive the murderous gang wars of Hong Kong, Tan Tung, a young martial arts street fighter, successfully takes on all challengers—until he runs up against the savage underworld empire of Hong Kong's Triad mafia. Escaping to San Francisco, he again tangles with criminal gangs, but this time fights his way to the top of the city's most feared gangster organization led by the White Dragon boss . At last, his rise to power leads to a final, murderous, gang-land war for control of all Chinatown. And in the end, Tan Tung must decide whether he will use his awesome skills to fight for evil...or for to help his best friend Yang Ching.Four college students  who take advantage of a credit card mistakenly issued to someone who doesn't exist and then use their university's computer to erase the charges they run up. But the computer seems to have some ideas of its own and starts murdering them.Twelve-year-old Steve Pascoe is nicknamed 'Snook' by everyone in Port Lincoln. He's thin and long-faced, like the fish he's named after. At school he's no good at sport and, at home, his father scorns him. Snook joins his father and fellow crewmen on a tuna-fishing expedition, when disaster strikes. It is up to Snook to save himself and his father from a desperate situation.In the year AD 2293, a post-apocalyptic Earth is inhabited mostly by the Brutals, who are ruled by the Eternals. Eternals use other Brutals, called Exterminators, as the Chosen warrior class. The Exterminators worship the god Zardoz, a huge, flying, hollow stone head. Zardoz teaches: : The gun is good. The penis is evil. The penis shoots seeds, and makes new life to poison the Earth with a plague of men, as once it was, but the gun shoots death, and purifies the Earth of the filth of brutals. Go forth&nbsp;... and kill! The Zardoz god head supplies the Exterminators with weapons, while the Exterminators supply it with grain. Zed , an Exterminator, secrets himself within Zardoz for an initially unknown purpose. He shoots and apparently kills its pilot, Arthur Frayn , who has already identified himself as an Eternal in the story's prologue. The stone head containing Zed returns to the Vortex, a secluded community of civilized beings, protected all around by an invisible force-field, where the immortal Eternals lead a pleasant but ultimately stifling existence. Arriving in the Vortex, Zed meets two young, attractive female Eternals&nbsp;— Consuella  and May . Overcoming him with psychic powers, they make him a prisoner and menial worker within their community. Consuella wants Zed destroyed immediately; others, led by May and a subversive Eternal named Friend , insist on keeping him alive for further study. In time, Zed learns the nature of the Vortex. The Eternals are overseen and protected from death by the Tabernacle, an artificial intelligence. Given their limitless lifespan, the Eternals have grown bored and corrupt. The needlessness of procreation has rendered the men impotent and meditation has replaced sleep. Others fall into catatonia, forming the social stratum the Eternals have named the "Apathetics". The Eternals spend their days stewarding mankind's vast knowledge, baking special bread for themselves from the grain deliveries and participating in communal navel gazing rituals. To give time and life more meaning the Vortex developed complex social rules whose violators are punished with artificial aging. The most extreme offenders are condemned to permanent old age and the status of "Renegades". But any Eternals who somehow manage to die, usually through some fatal accident, are almost immediately reborn into another healthy, synthetically reproduced body that is identical to the one they just lost. Zed is less brutal and far more intelligent than the Eternals think he is. Genetic analysis reveals he is the ultimate result of long-running eugenics experiments devised by Arthur Frayn&nbsp;— the Zardoz god&nbsp;— who controlled the outlands with the Exterminators, thus coercing the Brutals to supply the Vortices with grain. Zardoz's aim was to breed a superman who would penetrate the Vortex and save mankind from its hopelessly stagnant status quo. The women's analysis of Zed's mental images earlier had revealed that in the ruins of the old world Arthur Frayn first encouraged Zed to learn to read, then leading him to the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. Zed finally understands the origin of the name Zardoz&nbsp;— Wizard of Oz&nbsp;— bringing him to a true awareness of Zardoz as a skillful manipulator rather than an actual deity. He becomes infuriated with this realization and decides to plumb the deepest depths of this enormous mystery. As Zed divines the nature of the Vortex and its problems, the Eternals use him to fight their internecine quarrels. Led by Consuella, the Eternals decide to kill Zed and to age Friend. Zed escapes and, aided by May and Friend, absorbs all the Eternals' knowledge, including that of the Vortex's origin, in order to destroy the Tabernacle. Zed helps the Exterminators invade the Vortex and kill most of the Eternals&nbsp;— who welcome death as a release from their eternal but boring existence. Some few Eternals do escape the Vortex's destruction, heading out to radically new lives as fellow mortal beings among the Brutals. Zardoz ends in a wordless sequence of images accompanied by the sombre second movement  of Beethoven's Seventh Symphony. Zed and Consuella, dressed in matching green suits and having fallen in love, then sit next to each other in the cave-like stone head and age in time-lapse. A baby boy appears, matures and leaves his parents. The couple eventually decompose into skeletons and finally nothing remains in the space but painted hand-prints on the wall and Zed's Webley-Fosbery revolver.Vince Newman, a no-nonsense cop, decides to investigate on his own when tipped off that colleagues in the police department are involved in a drug ring.A small group of terrorists have seized the British ambassador to the fictitious country of "Scandinavia", and are holding him hostage in his residence. Scandinavia's head of security, Col. Nils Tahlvik , wants to take an uncompromising position, but he is overruled by the governments of both Scandinavia and Britain, who insist that all of the terrorist's demands be met. A passenger airplane arriving at the airport of Scandinavia's capital city is hijacked by another small group of  terrorists, led by Ray Petrie . The airplane ends up parked on an isolated taxiway, and Petrie demands that he be put in touch with Martin Shepherd , leader of the group holding the British ambassador hostage. Petrie, who is known by Shepherd, convinces Shepherd that his group and his hostages should leave on the hijacked airplane, not on a military plane as originally planned. Tahlvik and his group of military commandos make several attempts to thwart the terrorists' plans, but nothing seems to work out for them. At the last minute, Tahlvik figures out that the "terrorists" on the airplane are actually British secret operatives intent on capturing Martin Shepherd, and that the British officials have been misleading the Scandinavian authorities and undermining Tahlvik's efforts to capture the two terrorist groups. He boards the airplane alone just before it is to take off, precipitating a shootout between the two groups that leaves Shepherd and his group dead.The film follows two stories, one about the civilians trying to stay alive during the disaster, having to battle both "the crazies" as well as U.S. soldiers ordered to shoot on sight. The other involves the political and military leaders trying to contain the epidemic. Set in the small town of Evans City, Pennsylvania, the central characters are firefighter David , his girlfriend, nurse Judy and firefighter Clank . David was a Green Beret and Clank an infantryman, both having served in Vietnam. The town has seen a number of violent events, including arson at a local farm by a demented farmer. Judy and David are very concerned, since Judy is pregnant. Meanwhile, heavily armed U.S. troops in NBC suits and gas masks, arrive in town, led by Major Ryder , who takes over the doctor's office where Judy works. An Army plane carrying an untested bioweapon crash-landed in the hills near the town, infecting the water supply with a virus code-named "Trixie," causing victims to either die or become homicidal. "Trixie" is highly contagious, with anyone drinking from the Evans City reservoir becoming affected. In Washington D.C., government officials order Colonel Peckem  to go to Evans City to help contain the virus, while scientist Dr. Watts , arrives to develop a cure before the virus spreads. Officials also deploy bombers armed with nuclear weapons, to destroy the town, if necessary. Mayhem begins when the Army quarantines the town, shooting anyone attempting to escape. The soldiers move the townspeople into the high school, and chaos happens when the sheriff  is shot with his own pistol. While the townspeople are being rousted from their homes, a soldier encounters a quiet elderly woman. He kindly urges the woman to come with him but she stabs him with her knitting needle. by now nearly all of the villagers are infected. A group of soldiers are killed by a mob armed with guns and dynamite, after which an infected woman happily sweeps the blood soaked grass. The local priest  is infected. Upset at soldiers rousting his flock, he douses himself with gasoline and sets himself on fire. David, Judy, Clank, teenager Kathy Fulton , her father Artie  and an elderly man are confined to a large van by the soldiers. The van is attacked by infected people and the soldiers try to fight them off, killing both the soldiers and diseased people. The old man wanders off, muttering about the price of gasoline before being captured by more soldiers. Clank and David commandeer the van and the remaining five try to find a way to escape, going to the country club to hide and plan. Mad from the virus, Artie has sex with his deranged daughter Kathy, believing her to be his late wife. Discovering the pair, Clank beats Artie, who then apparently hangs himself. A shaken Kathy wanders outside, to be shot by soldiers. Believing himself to be infected, Clank kills several soldiers before being shot in the head. Judy, now visibly infected, is killed by armed civilians, despite David's efforts to save her. One of the civilians recognizes David clearly identifies himself as a fellow firefighter, also uninfected and trying to escape. Angry and frightened, David surrenders to the military. He realizes that he is immune to the virus, but keeps it a secret. The soldiers isolate Dr. Watts in the high school  allowing him to use the simple chemistry lab. Watts' insists that he might find a cure in a proper laboratory, but he is threatened with brute force. When the doctor finally develops a possible cure, he is mistaken for one of the infected and forced into quarantine by soldiers. The camera lingers over the doctor's face, leaving open the question of whether he has truly found a possible cure or is exhibiting the first signs of infection. The test tubes containing the vaccine are shattered after the doctor is pushed down a flight of stairs by a stampede of "Crazies." The last scene shows Colonel Peckem being ordered to relocate to another infected city. He boards a helicopter, looking with sadness at the chaos of the city below.Thomas "Babe" Levy  is a history Ph.D. candidate and avid runner researching the same field as his father, who committed suicide after being investigated during the Joseph McCarthy era. Babe's brother, Henry , known as "Doc", poses as an oil company executive but is actually a government agent working for a secret agency headed by Peter Janeway . When the brother of a Nazi war criminal is killed in a traffic accident, Doc suspects that the criminal, Dr. Christian Szell , will come to New York to retrieve a valuable diamond collection. Doc comes to New York under the guise of a visit to Babe. Meanwhile, Babe and his new girlfriend, Elsa Opel , who claims to be from Switzerland, are mugged by two men dressed in suits. When Doc takes Babe and Elsa to lunch, he tricks Elsa into revealing that she has been lying to Babe about her background. Though Doc suspects she may be connected to Szell, he tells Babe that she is seeking an American husband so that she can become a U.S. citizen. After Szell arrives in America, Doc confronts him stating he is not welcome in the country. Szell accepts the pronouncement, but then stabs Doc with a blade concealed in his sleeve. Doc makes it back to Babe's apartment and dies. The police interrogate Babe until government agents led by Janeway arrive. Janeway asks Babe what Doc told him before he died, and tells Babe that his brother was a U.S. government agent. Babe insists that his brother did not tell him anything, but Janeway is convinced Doc would not have struggled all the way to Babe's apartment without giving him vital information. Babe is later abducted from his apartment by the two men who mugged him in the park, and he is tortured by Szell. During his torture, Babe is repeatedly asked "Is it safe?" but continues to deny any knowledge. Babe is then rescued by Janeway, who explains that Szell is in America to sell off a large cache of diamonds which he had taken from Jews killed at Auschwitz. Janeway presses Babe about Doc's dying words, but Babe still insists he knows nothing. Frustrated, Janeway reveals himself as a double agent and returns Babe to Szell. Still unable to extract anything from Babe, Szell drills into one of his healthy teeth. Babe eventually escapes, aided by his skills as a marathon runner. Babe phones Elsa, who agrees to meet him with a car. Arriving at a country home, Babe guesses that Elsa has set him up, forcing her to confess that the home was owned by Szell's deceased brother. Janeway and Szell's men arrive, but Babe takes Elsa hostage. Janeway kills Szell's men and offers to let Babe kill Szell in revenge for Doc's death if Janeway can have the diamonds. Babe agrees, but as he leaves, Janeway tries to shoot Babe, but kills Elsa instead. Babe then shoots Janeway. Attempting to determine the value of his diamonds, Szell visits an appraiser in the Diamond District in midtown Manhattan. A shop assistant who is a Holocaust survivor believes he recognizes Szell as a war criminal. After Szell hurriedly leaves the shop, an elderly Jewish woman also recognizes him. Trying to cross the street to get closer to Szell, the woman is hit by a taxi, causing a crowd to assemble to aid her. Amidst the confusion, the shop assistant appears again, directly confronting Szell, who slits the man's throat. Szell retrieves his diamonds but, as he attempts to leave, Babe forces him at gunpoint into Central Park. Babe tells Szell he can keep as many diamonds as he can swallow. Szell initially refuses, and Babe begins throwing the diamonds into the water. Szell relents and swallows one diamond, but then refuses to cooperate further. Babe throws the rest of the diamonds down the steps towards the water; Szell dives for them, but stumbles, and falls on his own knife blade. Babe heads out into Central Park, stopping to throw his gun into the reservoir.Benny Fikus decides to cash in on his business' fire insurance by committing arson. Benny plans to have Sherman, who is in a mental hospital believing that World War II is still being fought, escape and burn down Benny's failing clothing store which he has made Sherman believe is a Nazi military headquarters. During a vacation trip with Marion, Benny has a heart attack, and his sons Ezra and Russel take over the store. The low self-esteemed Russell wants to expand the store and marry his girlfriend, while Ezra needs money to adopt an orphaned 6'8" African-American teenage boy named Booker T . Ezra needs Booker T. to play on the high-school basketball team he coaches because he has won a total of two games in seven years as a coach and is in danger of losing his job. Russell discovers that his father is bankrupt, with his only asset being the surrender value on the store's fire insurance policy. Russell cashes in the policy and splits it with Ezra, using the money to buy more stock. Back at home, Benny is practically comatose after his heart attack. An "in denial" Marion is told by house painters helping with a home redecoration project that her husband is "very sick" which she interprets as Benny being already dead. She then decides to change redecoration plans to prepare for funeral services. Meanwhile, Sherman has escaped and is on his way to burn down the "Nazi Headquarters" . Benny recovers from his heart attack, and informs Russell that Sherman is on his way to burn down the store so they can collect the fire insurance that they no longer have. Hilarity ensues as Ezra has his wife run his basketball team while he and Russell attempt to stop Sherman from his quest to fight the Huns by any means necessary.The film's plot is based on the Kennedy assassination and subsequent investigation. The film begins with the assassination of President Marc Jarry, who is about to be inaugurated for a second six-year term of office. Henri Volney, state attorney and member of the commission charged with investigating the assassination  refuses to agree to the commission's final findings. The film portrays the initial controversy about this, as well as Volney and his staff's reopening of the investigation.The film is set in London on the third or fourth anniversary of a nuclear war which lasted two minutes and twenty-eight seconds, including signing the peace treaty. Three  years after the nuclear holocaust, the survivors wander amidst the debris. Penelope is 17 months pregnant and lives with her lover, Alan, and her parents in a tube train on the  Circle Line. Other survivors include Captain Bules Martin, who holds a "Defeat of England" medal, as he was unable to save Buckingham Palace from disintegration during the war. Lord Fortnum  is fearful that he will mutate into the "bed sitting room" of the title. Mate is a fireguard, except that there is nothing left to burn. Shelter Man is a Regional Seat of Government who survived the war in a fallout shelter and spends his days looking at old films  and reminiscing about the time he shot his wife and his mother as they pleaded with him to let them in his shelter. Similarly, the "National Health Service" is the name of a male nurse, although overwhelmed by the extent of the war. Finally, there are two policemen, who hover overhead in the shell of a Morris Minor Panda car that has been made into a makeshift balloon, and shout "keep moving" at any survivors they see to offset the 'danger' of them becoming a 'target' in the unlikely event of another outbreak of hostilities. Lord Fortnum travels to 29 Cul de Sac Place and actually does become a bed sitting room. Penelope's mother is provided with a death certificate, after which she turns into a wardrobe. Penelope is forced to marry Martin because of his "bright future", despite her love for Alan. Her father is initially selected to become Prime Minister due to "his inseam measurements," but unfortunately, he mutates into a parrot and is eaten due to the starvation conditions that prevail. Penelope finally gives birth, but her monstrous mutant progeny dies. It emerges that Martin is impotent, so he yields marriage consummation to Alan. Penelope has a second child, which is normal, and there is an indication of hope for the future of the country amidst the devastation when it transpires that a team of surgeons have developed a cure for the mutations involving full-body transplant. Finally, a military band pays homage to Mrs. Ethel Shroake of 393A High Street, Leytonstone, the late Queen's former charwoman, and closest in succession to the throne.Despite doomsday warnings from throngs of locals, wealthy industrialist Robert Caine  makes the controversial decision to build a nuclear power plant near a sacred cave in the Middle East. But before Caine can reap the benefits of his latest bid for global domination, he discovers that his son, Angel , is the Antichrist, who is planning to use his father's project to trigger the end of the world.A sadistic serial killer calling himself "Scorpio" ([[Andrew Robinson  murders a young woman in a San Francisco swimming pool, using a high-powered rifle from a nearby rooftop. SFPD Inspector Harry Callahan  finds a ransom message demanding the city pay him $100,000. Scorpio also promises that for each day that the city refuses his demand, he will commit a murder, and his next victim will be "a Catholic priest or a nigger". The chief of police and the Mayor  assign the inspector to the case, though the Mayor is reluctant because of an incident involving the shooting of a naked man chasing a woman with a butcher knife by Callahan the previous year in the city's Fillmore District. While in a local diner, Callahan sees a bank robbery in progress and, alone with his revolver, he kills two of the robbers and wounds a third, challenging the man lying near a loaded shotgun: {{quote}} After the robber surrenders, he tells Callahan that he must know if the gun was still loaded. Callahan dry fires the weapon while pointed directly at the robber, and then laughs after revealing it to be empty. He had taken a burst of gunfire in his leg, so later he meets a police doctor who treats the injury; the police doctor references that he is from Callahan's home district, Potrero Hill. Assigned a rookie partner, Chico Gonzalez , Callahan complains that he needs someone experienced because his partners keep getting injured or worse. When Scorpio kills a young black boy from another rooftop, the police believe the killer will next pursue a Catholic priest. Callahan and Gonzalez wait for Scorpio near a Catholic church where a shootout ensues, but Scorpio escapes, killing a police officer disguised as a priest. Scorpio kidnaps, rapes, and buries alive a teenage girl, then demands twice his previous ransom before the girl's air runs out. The mayor decides to pay, and tells Callahan to deliver the money with no tricks, but the inspector wears a wire, brings a knife, and has his partner follow him. As Scorpio sends Callahan to various payphones throughout the city to make sure he is alone, the chase ends at Mount Davidson. Scorpio brutally beats Callahan and tells him he'd decided to let the girl die anyway; Gonzalez comes to his partner's rescue but is wounded. Callahan stabs Scorpio in the leg, but the killer escapes without the money. Gonzalez survives his wound, but decides to resign from the force at the urging of his wife. The doctor who treated Scorpio phones the police and tells Callahan and his new partner, Frank DiGiorgio , that he has seen Scorpio in Kezar Stadium. Running out of time, the officers break into the stadium and Callahan shoots Scorpio in his wounded leg. When Scorpio refuses to reveal the location of the girl and demands a lawyer, Callahan tortures the killer by standing on the wounded leg. Scorpio confesses, but the police are too late to save the girl. Because Callahan searched Scorpio's home without a warrant and improperly seized his rifle, the District Attorney decides that the killer cannot be charged. An outraged Callahan, warning that Scorpio will kill again because of the excitement that killing gives him, follows Scorpio on his own time. Scorpio pays a thug to give him a severe, but controlled beating, then claims the inspector is responsible. Despite his protests to the contrary, Callahan is ordered to stop following Scorpio. After killing a liquor store owner, Scorpio kidnaps a school bus load of children and demands another ransom and a plane to leave the country. The Mayor again insists on paying but when offered to deliver the ransom again, Callahan angrilly refuses. Despite a heated warning from the Mayor, Callahan instead pursues Scorpio without authorization, jumping onto the top of the bus from a railroad trestle. The bus crashes into a dirt embankment and Scorpio flees into a nearby rock quarry, where he has a running gun battle with Callahan. Scorpio keeps running until he spots a young boy sitting near a pond, and grabs him as a hostage. The inspector feigns surrender, but fires, wounding Scorpio in his left shoulder. The boy runs away and Callahan stands over Scorpio, gun drawn. The inspector reprises his "Do you feel lucky, punk?" speech. Scorpio lunges for his gun, and Callahan shoots him in the chest, propelling Scorpio into the water. As Callahan watches the dead body float on the surface, he takes out his inspector's badge; after contemplating what will happen to him as a result of his actions, he hurls it into the water, before walking away.Alonzo Hawk , is a ruthless billionaire who lives by replacing old buildings, some having historical significance, with skyscrapers and shopping malls. The newest and most ambitious of Hawk's projects is an indoor shopping center, the 130-storey Hawk Plaza in San Francisco, whose only obstacle is an archaic firehouse inhabited by "Grandma" Steinmetz , widow of its former owner, Fire Captain Steinmetz, and aunt of mechanic Tennessee Steinmetz , who appeared in The Love Bug; her displaced neighbor, flight attendant Nicole Harris ; and their sentient machines: Herbie the Love Bug, an orchestrion that chooses its own songs, and a retired cable car known as "Old No. 22". It is explained that Tennessee has gone to Tibet to visit his ailing philosophy teacher, while Herbie's former owner Jim Douglas ([[Dean Jones  has gone to Europe. Hawk has made numerous attempts at evicting Mrs. Steinmetz, intending to imprison her in a retirement home of his own making; but Hawk's lawyers have been unsuccessful in these attempts, and when his lawyer nephew Willoughby Whitfield  comes to visit him, Hawk sends him to Mrs. Steinmetz in their stead. Having met the firehouse's inhabitants, Willoughby becomes disillusioned and decides to return home to Missouri. Having lost him, Hawk attempts to capture Herbie; but when Hawk insults him, Herbie causes a series of traffic collisions and discards Hawk at his own office door, where Hawk orders his subordinates to capture Herbie again, followed by a Policeman giving Hawk several tickets for traffic offenses. While Herbie takes Mrs. Steinmetz to market, they are chased by Hawk's men; whereupon Herbie makes several daring escapes culminating in travel through the 1909 landmark Sheraton Palace Hotel and along a suspension cable on the Golden Gate Bridge, leaving Mrs. Steinmetz unaware of his activity throughout. Willoughby having decided to go home in disguise, he is convinced by Nicole to stay. On their return to the firehouse, they find that every item of furniture has been removed by Hawk; whereupon Mrs. Steinmetz, Willoughby, Nicole, and Herbie track the theft to a warehouse, which they invade to recover the furniture and whence they return, Mrs. Steinmetz riding "No. 22" while Nicole and Willoughby follow in Herbie. Piled into "No. 22" is Steinmetz's furniture, as well as a drunk named Judson , who thinks himself on a public cable car. Hawk pursues; but Herbie distracts him and later rescues Mrs. Steinmetz and Judson from a potential crash. Hawk thereafter recruits an independent demolition agent named Loostgarten ; while Mrs Steinmetz decides to confront Hawk herself. Accompanied by Willoughby, she drives Herbie onto the window-cleaning machine of Hawk’s skyscraper to reach his office, where Mrs. Steinmetz overhears a telephoned conversation with Loostgarten about the deal to demolish the firehouse and activates the window cleaning machine to fill the office with foam and water. This done, Herbie pursues Hawk around the building's perimetre until Mrs Steinmetz orders him to desist. Disguising his voice to resemble his uncle's, Willoughby directs Loostgarten to demolish Hawk's own house. Loostgarten then telephones Hawk to confirm the demolition, waking Hawk from several nightmares showing himself at the mercy of Herbie; whereupon Hawk gives confirmation, but belatedly realizes that he has condemned his own residence and attacks Loostgarten. In the morning, Hawk calls a truce with Mrs. Steinmetz, and thinking him sincere Willoughby and Nicole go for dinner, while Mrs. Steinmetz invites Judson to a similar meeting; but Hawk violates the truce by sending earthmovers to crush the firehouse and its inhabitants, prompting Herbie to go in search of Nicole and Willoughby. In the absence of Herbie, the only means of defense is an antique Fire hose, which Judson uses against the earthmovers. Having obtained Nicole and Willoughby, Herbie animates several other Volkswagen Beetles from various places in the city, with whom to frighten Hawk's men and ruin his scheme. Hawk is pursued from the grounds by Herbie, and later captured by the police; and later, Nicole and Willoughby are married, and ride Herbie through an arch formed by the other Volkswagen Beetles.A university professor with big dreams launches a career in the music industry, eventually running his own record label. To ensure radio stations play run his recording artists' music he illegally pays off deejays and in doing so runs the risk of destroying everything he's built.The director of a known car corporation invites one of his employees to his country villa to give him the good news. He just got promoted. However, the old man is not what he seems and promotion has a price.Back story While returning from a World War II bombing mission, a United States Army Air Forces B-25 Mitchell bomber sustains damage from action with German fighters. Without any order to abandon the aircraft, the navigator, Hamner , panics and bails out. The aircraft, now lost due to having no navigator, and the remaining crew overfly their base and continue on for another 700 miles before eventually crash landing in the Libyan desert. The five remaining crewmen survive the landing and, convinced they are close to their base, strike out across the desert only to die of exposure after several days beneath the relentless African sun. Main plot The ghosts have made their way back to the wreckage of the aircraft where they have spent the next seventeen years in a type of limbo state, playing baseball and longing for repatriation back to their home country, which can only occur if their bodies are recovered. The plane is finally spotted by an oil surveying aircraft, which reports the discovery back to the United States Air Force. Seeing the survey plane and realizing that they are soon about to "have visitors", the five remaining crew members' ghosts begin returning the plane to its state at the time of the crash, putting objects and artifacts in their original positions in hopes of convincing their visitors they had stayed with the plane and hopefully inducing them to search for their bodies. Having survived the crash, Hamner, who had remained in the military after the war and is now an Air Force brigadier general, accompanies the team sent to investigate the remains of the B-25. Fearing disciplinary action and the end of his military career should the truth of his cowardice be found out, he tries to convince his fellow investigators that the entire crew bailed out over the Mediterranean with him and that the pilotless plane somehow flew on by itself. Although the discovery of Gant's harmonica indicates that the crew did not bail out over the sea, the bodies are nowhere to be seen. Unable to find evidence to the contrary, the team has no choice but to accept Hamner's explanation and is about to leave when the ghosts of the crew make their appearance to an inebriated Hamner, leading him to flee in panic across the desert in a jeep. Followed by his colleagues , who are intent on preventing the man from injuring himself, the chase ends with them arriving at the scene of an abandoned life raft  and the bodies of most of the dead crew, making it clear the truth behind Hamner's bailout of the aircraft and his apparent cowardice obvious. In the end, the ghost of each crewman suddenly vanishes as their bodies are recovered, their spirit apparently forced to accompany their remains back to the United States. The exception being Tony, who had returned to the plane only to die when the tail section dropped on him. Hamner is the sole survivor from the crew and Tony is the sole survivor of the ghosts. The film ends with a solitary Tony at the plane, but also a glimmer of hope as the pilot's log is found, mentioning Tony's return to the plane. One final visit to the crash site is decided upon.A trio of Detroit auto workers, two black- Zeke Brown  and Smokey James - and one white- Jerry Bartowski - are fed up with mistreatment at the hands of both management and union brass, and coupled with financial hardships on each man's end, the trio hatch a plan to rob a safe at union headquarters. They commit the caper, but find only a few scant bills in the process. More importantly, however, they also come away with a ledger which contains evidence of the union's illegal loan-lending operation and ties to organized crime syndicates. They attempt to blackmail the union with the information, but the union retaliates strongly and begins to turn the tables on the three friends. Meanwhile, a federal agent attempts to coerce Jerry into informing on the union's corruption which could make him enemies with his co-workers as well as the union bosses. At the same time, corrupt union bosses try to get Zeke to work for them.The aging Books and the Old West are dying. Arriving in Carson City, Nevada on January 22, 1901, reading reports of the death of Great Britain's Queen Victoria in the newspaper, Books seeks a medical opinion from someone he trusts, E. W. "Doc" Hostetler . Hostetler confirms a Colorado doctor's prognosis of a painful and undignified death from cancer, so Books rents a room from the widow Bond Rogers  and her son Gillom  to contemplate his fate. A distinctly nervous Marshal Walter Thibido  visits the house to order the notorious gunfighter to leave town. Books tells him about his terminal illness. The lawman is both relieved and elated, telling him, "Don't take too long to die." Books' presence in town becomes known. Old enemies and glory seekers are drawn to him. Mike Sweeney  wants to avenge a brother's death. A newspaperman  wants to exaggerate and glorify the violence in Books' life. Others seek fame by killing the gunfighter, Books being forced to shoot two strangers who try to ambush him in his sleep. Gillom is impressed, but his mother loses boarders and is upset by the violence in her home. Old flame Serepta  shows up to ask Books to marry her. He is touched until he learns that she wants to use his notoriety to make money from the sensationalized ghost-written "memoirs" of his widow. After Doc Hostetler sells Books laudanum to ease his pain and advises him not to die a death like he has described, Books bargains with someone who plans to profit from his death, the undertaker Hezekiah Beckum , from whom he orders a headstone with specific writings on it. Gillom tries to sell Books' horse to Moses , the local blacksmith to help pay back his mother's loss of boarders, however, Books negotiates a better deal, confronts Gillom, and they work out their differences. Books sets himself up to die on his birthday rather than die of cancer and sends Gillom to three specific men: Mike Sweeney; Jack Pulford , a professional gambler and pistol shot; and Jay Cobb   with a message saying he will be at the Metropole saloon on January 29, his 58th birthday. On his birthday, the headstone he ordered arrives and shows 1843 as the year of his birth. Having made a gift of his horse, which he bought back, to Gillom as he has grown fond of him, Books says goodbye to Bond, whom he has gotten friendlier with and departs to meet his fate. In a changing frontier, Books arrives at the saloon by trolley and Sweeney in an Oldsmobile Curved Dash . It is early in the day, so there are no other customers for the bartender besides the four men. Books orders a drink from the bartender, and lifts his glass to each of the three men who are there at his invitation. Suddenly, one by one, the men draw their guns and open fire, each taking on Books. In the ensuing shootout, Books kills all of his opponents but is shot twice himself. Gillom arrives after the gunfight to find Books wounded but still alive. The bartender sneaks up on Books and empties a shotgun into his back. Gillom picks up Books' gun and kills the bartender. Gillom looks at Books' gun in horror, then tosses it away. Books looks on, nods his approval, and dies.In futuristic London, Alex  is the leader of his "droogs", Pete , Georgie , and Dim , one of many youth gangs in the decaying metropolis. One night, after intoxicating themselves on "milk plus", they engage in an evening of "ultra-violence", including beating an elderly vagrant , and fighting a rival gang led by Billyboy .Both Burgess' novel and Stanley Kubrick's published movie script have this character's name as one word "Billyboy" although the Internet Movie Database lists him in the credits with two words "Billy Boy". Stealing a car, they drive to the country home of writer F. Alexander ([[Patrick Magee , where they beat Mr. Alexander to the point of crippling him for life. Alex then rapes his wife  while intoning "Singin' in the Rain". The next day, while truant from school, Alex is approached by probation officer Mr. P. R. Deltoid , who is aware of Alex's violence and cautions him. In response, Alex visits a record store where he picks up two girls. Alex and the girls have sex in a fast-motion scene. After the events of the night before, his droogs express discontent with Alex's petty crimes, demanding more equality and more high-yield thefts. Alex reasserts his leadership by attacking them and throwing them into a canal. That night, Alex invades the mansion of a wealthy "cat"-woman , filled with erotic art. While his droogs remain at the front door, Alex bludgeons the woman with a phallic statue. At the climax of the attack, close-ups of the erotic paintings on the walls are barely visible in single-frame sequences. Hearing police sirens, Alex tries to run away, but is betrayed by his droogs. Dim smashes a pint bottle of milk across his face, leaving him stunned and bleeding. Alex is captured and brutally beaten by the police. A gloating Deltoid spits in his face and informs him that the woman subsequently died in the hospital, making him a murderer. Alex is sentenced to 14 years incarceration. Two years into the sentence, the Minister of the Interior  arrives at the prison looking for test subjects for the Ludovico technique, an experimental aversion therapy for rehabilitating criminals within two weeks; Alex readily volunteers. The process involves drugging the subject, strapping him to a chair, propping his eyelids open, and forcing him to watch violent movies. Alex, initially pleased by the violent images he sees, becomes nauseated due to the drugs. He realizes that one of the films' soundtracks is by his favourite composer, Ludwig van Beethoven, and that the Ludovico technique will make him sick when he hears the music he loves. He tries unsuccessfully to end the treatment. After two weeks of the Ludovico technique, the Minister of the Interior puts on a demonstration to prove that Alex is "cured". He is shown to be incapable of fighting back against an actor  who insults and attacks him, and he becomes violently ill at the sight of a topless woman . Though the prison chaplain  protests at the results, saying that "there's no morality without choice", the prison governor  asserts that they are not interested in the moral questions but only "the means to prevent violence". Alex is released and finds that his possessions have been confiscated by the police to help make restitution to his victims, and that his parents have rented out his room. Homeless, Alex encounters the same elderly vagrant from before, who attacks him with several other friends. Alex is saved by two policemen but is shocked to discover they are two of his former droogs, Dim and Georgie. They drag Alex to the countryside, where they beat and nearly drown him. The dazed Alex wanders the countryside before coming to the home of Mr Alexander, and collapses. Alex wakes up to find himself being treated by Mr Alexander and his manservant, Julian . Mr Alexander does not recognize Alex as his attacker but has read about his treatment in the newspapers. Seeing Alex as a political weapon to usurp the government, Mr Alexander intends to expose the Ludovico technique as a step toward totalitarianism by way of mind control. As Mr. Alexander prepares to introduce Alex to colleagues , he hears Alex singing "Singin' in the Rain" in the bath, and the memories of the earlier assault return. With his colleagues' help, Mr. Alexander drugs Alex and places him in a locked upstairs bedroom, playing Beethoven's Ninth Symphony through the floor below. Alex, in excruciating pain, throws himself from the window and is knocked unconscious by the fall. Alex wakes up in a hospital, having dreamt about doctors messing around inside his head. While being given a series of psychological tests, Alex finds that he no longer has an aversion to violence. The Minister of the Interior arrives and apologizes to Alex, letting him know that Mr Alexander has been "put away". He offers to take care of Alex and get him a job in return for cooperation with his PR counter-offensive. As a sign of goodwill, the Minister brings in a stereo system playing Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. Alex then realizes that instead of an adverse reaction to the music, he sees an image of himself having sex in the snow with a woman in front of an approving crowd dressed in Beethoven-era fashion. He then states, in a sarcastic and menacing voice-over, "I was cured, all right!"Brown's Steve Rogers is first shown sketching a portrait of a Mrs. Shaw , who complains to him about a gang of muggers who have been stealing the proceeds from cashed Social Security checks; she denies having cashed hers. He bids her do this in order to set a trap for the muggers, and springs the trap as Captain America. In the meantime, a free-lance revolutionary terrorist calling himself General Miguel , planning to fight an unspecified war, kidnaps a Professor Ian Ilson  and forces him to resume his research in manipulative gerontology. Ilson has managed to formulate both a chemical that accelerates aging and the antidote to the same chemical, and Miguel, posing as the warden of a prison in Oregon near Portland, plans to use the chemicals in question to hold Portland hostage for a multi-million-dollar ransom. Ultimately Brown's Captain America and Lee's General Miguel directly clash face-to-face, and when Miguel throws a glass bottle of the aging accelerant into the air, hoping it will shatter against Captain America's body, the Captain throws his shield into the air, where it shatters the bottle in such a manner that the aging accelerant splashes Miguel instead, aging him literally to death in less than a minute.After the death of his family during a riot in Belfast, Niall Hennessy comes up with a plan to blow up the British Houses of Parliament.http://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/36138The inhabitants of one apartment building want to have central heating. However, with significant effort and strong connections, the Journalist manages to unveil that the turn of their building, to be included in the central heating network, has not yet come. Moreover, it is unclear in how many years it will come. In their despair and after a number of arguments, quarrels and even a bit of shooting, they decide do undertake actions that are considered illegal at that time . They hire contractors to lay the pipes. Three guys show up, the contract is signed and the money is paid in advance. Soon the work begins. With skills and acts provoking severe doubt in their professionalism, the contractors manage to drill holes in all walls and ceilings and then they disappear. Panic and despair strikes the residents. What are they to do now…? A decision is made. They must find the crooks and bring them back to finish what they have started. Finally, it turns out that our three fellows are already in jail. Then, the sufferers strike a bargain with the director of the jail; if he lets the cheats out to finish the job, then there will always be a shift of three people from the inhabitants of the building to take their places in jail. Moreover, such highly educated people like the Journalist and the Academician will give series of lectures to the prisoners, which will help the director to fulfil the cultural plan of the prison for the year. The job is finally done but the director of the prison is brought to Court. And our group of humble citizens, who have been only trying to provide themselves with some heat for the cold winter days, follow him in the dock. However, the Court finds them not guilty, taking into account their good will and the fact that contractors have just come to the house of the Judge.The Captain  leads a band of ruthless mercenaries who fight for the highest bidder regardless of religion. His men pillage the countryside, raping and looting when not engaged in actual military operations. Vogel  is a former teacher who is merely trying to survive the overall slaughter taking place throughout south-central Germany. He runs from The Captain's forces and eventually stumbles upon an idyllic mountain vale, seemingly untouched by war. The Captain and his small band are not far behind. Trapped in the valley, Vogel convinces The Captain to preserve it and the village it shelters for their own benefit as the outside world faces famine and devastation. "Live", Vogel tells The Captain, "while the army dies." The Captain decides that his men will indeed rest here for the winter. He forces the locals to submit, especially their headman Gruber . The local Catholic priest  is livid that the mercenaries include a number of Protestants , but there is little he can do to sway The Captain. The mercenaries are of one mind after The Captain kills a dissenting member of his band, and religious and ethnic divisions are set aside. At first, the locals accept their fate. Vogel is appointed judge by Gruber, to settle disputes between villagers and soldiers. As long as food, shelter, and a small number of women are provided, the mercenaries leave the locals alone. Hansen  attempts to rape a girl and, exiled from the group, manages to lead a rival mercenary band to the valley, before the winter sets in and closes the valley to all outsiders. He and his band are destroyed and the valley goes into hibernation. But as winter fades, it becomes obvious that the soldiers will have to leave. The Captain learns of a major military campaign in the Upper Rhineland and decides to leave the valley in order to participate. Vogel wants to accompany him, fearing Gruber will have him killed once The Captain leaves. However, The Captain orders Vogel to stay as the condition of not sacking the village, leaving a few men as guards. After The Captain departs, his woman from the village is caught engaging in devil-worshipping witchcraft. The priest orders her tortured and burned at the stake, and one of The Captain's men kills the priest by pushing him into the fire. Meanwhile, the Captain and his men engage in a major siege operation. Most of his men are killed. The Captain survives long enough to return to the valley, only to find himself ambushed by the villagers, and Vogel trying to escape before the villagers kill him too. The Captain dies of his battle wounds, declaring to Vogel, "You were right. I was wrong." A young woman from the village wants to leave with Vogel, but he tells her to stay, and runs off alone in the mist.Douglas plays a safe cracker who has just been released from prison. His faithful and beautiful wife has waited for his release. He attempts what he plans to be one last burglary of a safe in the top floor of a Hamburg building. He calculates that even if unsuccessful, a prison sentence would be manageable. However, he miscalculates when a building guard is killed by accident, something that will result in a life sentence. He is led away by police as his wife looks on.British Treasury secret agent Phillip Calvert  is sent to investigate the hijacking of five cargo ships in the Irish Sea, tracking the latest hijacked ship—the Nantesville, carrying £8 million in gold bullion—to the Scottish Highlands and the sleepy port town of "Torbay" on the "Isle of Torbay" . Posing as marine biologists, Calvert and his partner Hunslett  find the local inhabitants suspicious and hostile. They suspect that Cypriot tycoon and shipping magnate Sir Anthony Skouras , whose luxury yacht Shangri-La is anchored off the coast, may be behind the pirating of the gold bullion. While searching the surrounding area in a Royal Navy Helicopter, Calvert makes contact with a group of remote shark fishermen who appear more friendly than Torbay's locals. Calvert also meets the occupants of a Castle, Lord Kirkside and his teenage daughter, who behave strangely as well as being hostile. As the helicopter brings Calvert back to Torbay it comes under attack from the shore and the Royal Navy pilot is killed. The helicopter crashes, explodes and plummets into the sea. Calvert escapes from the helicopter after it sinks to the bottom. When he returns to his research yacht Firecrest he finds Hunslett is missing. Operating out of his yacht, Calvert is joined by his boss Sir Arthur Arnford-Jones, known as "Uncle Arthur" . Together, they combat boarders and make ready for sea. On raising the anchor they find the dead body of Hunslett tied to it. They are joined by Skouras's wife, Charlotte , and when a pirate speedboat approaches, Calvert rams it, shoots the occupants and blows up the boat in vengeance for Hunslett's death. Calvert recruits the shark fishermen to deal with Skouras and his modern day pirates. Guessing that the missing bullion ships are being sunk to allow the gold to be offloaded invisibly, Calvert dives in the bay and finds the Nantesville. He fights and kills one of the divers, whom he has previously encountered and who he suspects killed Hunslett. He then secretly enters Kirkside's castle and questions the Lord's daughter, discovering that Skouras is an innocent victim whose real wife is being held hostage along with other locals down in the castle's dungeons. He then sneaks into the underground dock of the castle where the gold is being offloaded. At midnight  the shark fishermen ram the gates of the underground dock with their boat. The pirates are expecting them because Charlotte has been transmitting Calvert's plans to them by secret radio. A fire fight ensues in which the pirates are wiped out, after which Calvert lets Charlotte escape with a single bar of gold in her possession.On Falconhurst, a run-down plantation owned by the widowed Warren Maxwell  and his son Hammond , a Mandingo slave Ganymede, or Mede , is trained to fight other slaves. Hammond neglects his wife Blanche ([[Susan George , whom he rejects on their wedding night after discovering she was not a virgin. Hammond instead ravishes his slave Ellen , while Blanche seduces Mede. These various, conflicting affairs all eventually come together causing the film to end tragically.Billy Tully , a boxer past his prime, goes to a Stockton, California gym to get back into shape and spars with Ernie Munger , an eighteen-year-old he meets there. Seeing potential in the youngster, Tully suggests Munger look up his former manager and trainer, Ruben . Munger takes his advice. Later, Tully tells combative white barfly Oma  and her easygoing black boyfriend Earl  how impressed he is with Munger. Inspired, Tully decides to get back into boxing himself. Tully's life has been a mess ever since his wife left him. He drinks too much, cannot hold down a job, and has to pick crops to make ends meet. He moves in with Oma after Earl is sent to prison for a few months. Their relationship is rocky and Tully eventually breaks it off. Munger loses his first fight, but perseveres. Unlike Tully, he does not let setbacks get the better of him. The young man gets pressured into marriage by Faye  and soon has a baby on the way. In his first bout back, Tully narrowly defeats tough, well-respected Mexican boxer Lucero , but gets discouraged when he gets only $100 for it. He breaks up with Ruben  and goes back to his old ways. He tries to make up with Oma, only to find her back with Earl. Later, Munger is returning home after a win and sees a drunk Tully. Munger tries to ignore him, but when Tully asks him to have a drink with him, he reluctantly agrees to coffee. After a short while, Munger gets up to leave. Tully asks him to stay awhile longer. Munger agrees, but the two men have nothing to talk about, and the film ends in awkward silence.The FBI hires a former mafia hit man  to track down and bring in a powerful reclusive billionaire suspected of criminal acts for his own benefit. The man also comes into a conflict with a woman  tracking down the same crook for revenge reasons.The infamous vampire Count Dracula is expelled from his castle by the Communist government of Romania, which plans to convert the structure into a training facility for gymnasts . The world-weary Count travels to New York City with his bug-eating assistant Renfield and establishes himself in a hotel, but only after a mix-up at the airport causes his coffin to be accidentally sent to be the centerpiece in a funeral at a black church in Harlem. While Dracula learns that America contains such wonders as blood banks, he also proceeds to suffer the general ego-crushing that comes from modern life in the Big Apple as he romantically pursues flaky fashion model Cindy Sondheim, whom he has admired from afar and believes to be the current reincarnation of his true love . Dracula is ineptly pursued in turn by Sondheim's psychiatrist and quasi-boyfriend Jeffrey Rosenberg. Jeffrey is the grandson of Dracula's old nemesis Fritz  van Helsing but changed his name to Rosenberg "for professional reasons". Rosenberg's numerous methods to combat Dracula - mirrors, garlic, a Star of David , and hypnosis - are easily averted by the Count. Rosenberg also tries burning Dracula's coffin with the vampire still inside, but is arrested by hotel security. Subsequently he tries to shoot him with three silver bullets, but Dracula remains unscathed, patiently explaining that this works only on werewolves. Rosenberg's increasingly erratic actions eventually cause him to be locked up as a lunatic, but as mysterious cases of blood-bank robberies and vampiric attacks begin to spread, NYPD Lieutenant Ferguson starts to believe the psychiatrist's claims and gets him released. In the end, as a major blackout hits the city, Dracula flees via taxi cab back to the airport with Cindy, pursued by Rosenberg and Ferguson. The coffin is accidentally sent to Jamaica instead of London and the couple miss their plane. On the runway, Cindy finally agrees to become Dracula's vampire bride. Rosenberg attempts to stake Dracula, but as he moves in for the kill, the two fly off as bats together. A check drops down by which Cindy pays off her  psychiatry bill to Rosenberg, to which he remarks: "She has become a responsible person ... or whatever." Rosenberg keeps Dracula's cape - the only thing his stake had hit - which Ferguson borrows, hoping  it will help him on his wedding anniversary. The last scene shows Dracula and Cindy, transformed into bats, on their way to Jamaica.It starred Dyanne Thorne as "Ilsa," commandante of a Nazi Stalag ; the maliciousness of her character was very loosely based on that of Ilse Koch. Ilsa conducts sadistic scientific experiments designed to demonstrate that women are more capable of enduring pain than men are, and therefore should be allowed to fight in the army. Ilsa is also portrayed as a buxom woman with a voracious sexual appetite for men. Every night she chooses another one of her male prisoners and rapes him; however, due to her insatiable hunger, she gets disappointed when her current victim eventually ejaculates, and promptly has him castrated and put to death. Only an American prisoner, who can withhold ejaculating, manages to use her weakness to his favor.Film starts with a robbery scene, Egon is about to open Franz Jäger safe in local cinema with his two partners, out of sudden comes Benny's brother Harry which is dynamite specialist. He is also alcohol addict and was drinking before the action and because of his clumsy moves he turns on the alarm, police comes and Egon is caught. After 8 months in prison Egon comes out with brand new plan to rob mobster which has warehouse with frozen food as a cover-up for his illegal business. Unfortunately for Egon, Benny and Kjeld have no longer interest in thievery as they both found jobs in a local shop and Ben is engaged to the store's manager. Harry feels guilty for the last action and helps Egon to make criminals from Ben and Kjeld again. He succeeds and his ingenious plan as usually works almost flawlessly so they're getting the money, but with Ben and Kjeld as a partners he can be certain that they won't be wealthy for a long time.Morris Buttermaker , an alcoholic and former minor-league baseball player, is recruited by a city councilman and attorney who filed a lawsuit against an ultra-competitive Southern California Little League which excluded the least skilled athletes  from playing. In order to settle the lawsuit, the league agrees to add an additional team - the Bears - which is composed of the worst players. Buttermaker becomes the coach of the unlikely team, which includes  a near-sighted pitcher, an overweight catcher, a foulmouthed shortstop with a Napoleon complex, an outfielder who dreams of emulating his idol Hank Aaron, two non-English-speaking exchange students, a withdrawn  boy named Timmy Lupus, and a motley collection of other "talent". Shunned by the more competitive teams , the Bears are the outsiders. They play their opening game, and do not even record an out, giving up 26 runs before Buttermaker forfeits the game. Realizing the team is nearly hopeless, he recruits a couple of unlikely prospects: First up, is sharp-tongued Amanda Whurlizer , a skilled pitcher  who is the 12-year-old daughter of one of Buttermaker's ex-girlfriends. At first, she tries to convince Buttermaker that she has given up baseball, but then she reveals that she had been practicing "on the sly". Before agreeing to join the team, Amanda makes a number of outlandish demands  as conditions for joining. Upon hearing her demands, Buttermaker asks, "Who do you think you are, Catfish Hunter?" Amanda responds by asking, "Who's he?" Rounding out the team, Buttermaker recruits the "best athlete in the area," who also happens to be the local cigarette-smoking, loan-sharking, Harley-Davidson-riding troublemaker, Kelly Leak . With Whurlizer and Leak on board, the team starts gaining more confidence, and the Bears start winning games. Eventually, the unlikely Bears make it to the championship game opposite the top-notch Yankees, who are coached by aggressive, competitive Roy Turner . As the game progresses, tensions are ratcheted up as Buttermaker and Turner engage in shouting matches, directing their players to become increasingly more ruthless and competitive against each other, going as far as fighting, spiking on slide, or the batter getting hit on purpose. The turnaround point of the game comes after a heated exchange between Turner's son  Joey  and the Bears at-bat catcher Engelberg . Turner orders his son to walk Engelberg, the only Bears hitter he cannot overcome, despite Joey's wish to give it a try. In response, Joey intentionally throws a wild beanball nearly striking Engelberg in the head. Horrified, Turner goes to the mound and slaps his son. On the next pitch, Engelberg hits a routine ground ball back to Joey who exacts revenge against his father by holding the ball until Engelberg has an inside the park home run. Joey then leaves the game dropping the ball at his father's feet. Buttermaker - realizing that he has become as competitive as Turner - puts the benchwarmers on the field, thus giving everyone a chance to play. In spite of this, the finish-up brings up the best team-play from the Bears. After loading the bases with smart tactics  they nearly recover a four run difference, with the last runner getting taken out at the last moment. After having narrowly lost the game 7 to 6, Buttermaker gives the team free rein of his beer cooler. Although they did not win the championship, they have the satisfaction of having come a long way. The condescending Yankees congratulate the Bears telling them that although they are still not that good, they have "guts." Tanner, the shortstop, replies by telling the Yankees where they can put their trophy. The Bears cheer and Timmy Lupus overcomes his chronic shyness enough to yell "Wait 'til next year!", then they spray their beers all over each other. The movie ends with a field celebration that makes it look as if they won the game.C.C. Ryder falls in with a biker gang in the desert, and then rescues Ann from trouble with the same gang. There next occurs a motocross race tied in with a fashion shoot. The Heads disrupt the event, but C.C. Ryder enters the race to gain Ann's favor. This puts him in conflict with Moon. When Ryder wins the race and leaves with his award money the gang kidnaps Ann, and Ryder must ride back to save her.{{plot}} Global Airways Flight 502—using a Boeing 707—takes off as a routine flight from Oakland, California, to Minneapolis/St.Paul, Minnesota, with Captain Henry O'Hara  and his flight crew at the controls. In the middle of the flight, Captain O'Hara becomes aware of a bomb threat when he goes into the women's bathroom  and sees "Bomb on plane divert to Anchorage Alaska. No Joke, No Tricks. Death." He interprets this to mean that he has to divert his course immediately to Anchorage, Alaska, or otherwise the bomb will explode on board. O'Hara changes course immediately to Anchorage and manages to carry out a perfect landing there, despite terrible weather and other circumstances. A disillusioned soldier, Sgt. Jerome K. Weber , a Vietnam veteran driven into insanity by his war trauma, is responsible for hijacking the plane, and threatens to blow it up with a bomb. In Anchorage, the majority of economy class passengers escape via an emergency slide. The remaining passengers are allowed to leave including the three coach class stewardesses, Jane, Lovejoy and Hazel. Weber then keeps all first class passengers as hostages, amongst them United States Senator Arne Lindner , and Senior Stewardess Angela Thatcher  and insists to be flown to Moscow, as he intends to defect to the Soviet Union. Although the airline doesn't receive clearance to fly into Soviet airspace, Weber insists to be flown straight ahead to Moscow, threatening the pilots with death if they do not comply. Upon entering Soviet airspace, Soviet military aircraft appear to intercept the 707. Finally, O'Hara lowers the landing gear and flaps to a full landing configuration to make the Soviet interceptors aware that this is a US civilian aircraft and not a military intruder, as the Soviet authorities had thought and had ordered the plane to be shot down. O'Hara's actions result in the Soviet aircraft realizing that they have been confronted with a hijacked US civilian airplane. The Soviet military aircraft escort the 707 to their nearest airport, Moscow Airport. There, all passengers are finally released. It becomes clear that O'Hara and Senior Stewardess Thatcher have been in love for some time but O'Hara separated from Thatcher in order to save his marriage. Thatcher is now in love with first officer Sam. After landing, O'Hara and Weber are the only persons to remain on board of the 707. Weber eventually realizes that he is unable to achieve the confidence of the Soviet authorities and his attempt to seize the 707 was futile. When O'Hara finally tries to kick him out of his 707, Weber shoots him. Both men stagger down the gangway, where finally Weber is shot and killed by Soviet forces. O'Hara survives, just wounded in his shoulders, and he is looking up into the sky, with a great smile of relief, when he sees a plane just after takeoff.President Fenton and the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives are killed while at a summit in Frankfurt, West Germany when the palace hosting the legation suffers a collapse. Vice President Noah Calvin, elderly and in very ill health, refuses to assume the office, pointing out that they'll need another replacement almost immediately. Arthur Eaton, the Secretary of State, is urged to take the office, but he points out that according to the law, the line of succession places the job next with the President pro tempore of the Senate, who is Douglass Dilman. A stunned Dilman is sworn in and arrives at the White House to assume office. Eaton's outspoken wife Kay berates her husband for not pushing to become president, even though it would be contrary to the succession order. Eaton assures her that he will become president once Dilman proves unable to handle the job. In the morning, as Eaton and his advisers come to the Oval Office, it becomes evident that Eaton is setting himself up as the "power behind the throne." Dilman meets with Eaton, who gives him a binder of briefing notes. Included are statements the President can give in response to questions asked by the press, statements that generally conform to positions on issues by the administration of the deceased Fenton. Dilman meets the press for the first time as president. At the outset, he goes along with the information provided. An aggressive reporter observes the "puppet strings" as Dilman stops to consult notes after each question, and he questions Dilman's independence. Eaton scribbles a note and has it taken forward to the president. Dilman, having realized that he's being manipulated, crumples Eaton's note, shoves the briefing binder aside and proceeds under his own initiative, deciding that if God or fate has made him president, he will have to make his own decisions. Dilman, a moderate, is confronted with activists and extremists over his skin color. Robert Wheeler, a young black man, meanwhile, is sought for extradition by apartheid South Africa for a deadly act in that country; Dilman offers his help as the young man claims he was in Burundi at the time. Senator Watson introduces a bill that would require approval of Congress in any attempt by the President to dismiss a member of the cabinet. Eaton doesn't tell Dilman about it, but a few black congressmen have a meeting with Dilman to discuss their concerns. Dilman believes they are referring to a minority rights bill and pledges his support, until one of the congressmen tells the President it isn't about the rights bill but the Watson bill. Dilman subsequently chews out a group of senior leaders whom Eaton is meeting with, questioning his relevance if such an important bill is not even being brought to his attention. Senator Watson visits the South African embassy, where the ambassador comments that his own country would never have a black man as president. He shows a news film to Senator Watson that proves Wheeler was indeed in South Africa, and it breaks as a scandal threatening Dilman's young presidency. Dilman's activist daughter Wanda clashes with Kay Eaton at a dinner in the White House. The President watches the verbal exchange with pride and bemusement. But when he obtains the young black man's confession, handing him over for extradition, the President alienates Wanda, who doesn't agree with handing over an activist against white minority rule in South Africa. During this scene there is a very telling moment with Wheeler  calls the President a "House Nigger" and the President responds that "Black men don't burn churches and kill 4 children, they don't hunt down a Martin Luther King with a telescopic sight. Passion may drive you to the streets to throw a brick but to buy a gun plant a alibi and travel 5000 miles and kill a human being is bloodless, worthy of the selective morality of Adolf Eichman." The President addresses reporters, explaining that while some people think violence is the only answer, he will rely on diplomacy and peaceful means. He washes his hands of the Wheeler issue. A reporter asks if he's going to pass up a run for the presidential nomination in the next election. Dilman replies that he is going to "fight like heck" to win the nomination. To the tune of "Hail to the Chief," he is introduced to the party's national convention.MGR acted as a college student who is very much interested in driving the car very fast. While driving fast one day he mets with an accident where a person dies. Later how he becomes the guardian of the victim's family is the story.In the early 1950s, in New York City, restaurant cashier and small-time bookie Howard Prince  has a friend who writes for television. Because the friend, Alfred Miller ([[Michael Murphy  has been blacklisted, he asks Howard to sign his name to the TV scripts. Howard agrees out of friendship and because he needs the percentage of the writer's fee that Miller will pay him. The scripts are submitted to network producer Phil Sussman , who is pleased to have a writer not contaminated by the blacklist. Howard's script also offers a plum role for one of Sussman's top actors, Hecky Brown . Howard becomes such a “success” that Miller’s other friends hire him to be their front. The quality of the scripts and Howard's ability to write so many impresses Sussman's idealistic script editor, Florence Barrett , who mistakes him for a principled, artistic talent. Howard begins dating her but changes the subject whenever she wants to discuss his work. McCarthyism is rampant and investigators are trying to expose and blacklist Communists in the entertainment industry. They are making life hell for Hecky Brown. They affect his ability to find work and pressure Sussman to drop him from the show. Hecky takes a liking to Howard and invites him to the Catskills, where he is booked to perform on stage. The club owner short-changes the entertainer on his promised salary, furthering Hecky's distress. The professional humiliation and loss of income take their toll, resulting in Hecky's suicide. Howard witnesses the harsh reality of what the terrible actions of the right-wing “Freedom Information Services” can do. Suspicion is cast his way and Howard is called to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee. He ends up revealing privately to Florence that he is not a brilliant writer at all, just a humble cashier. Howard decides to outwit the committee. He hatches a scheme in which he will respond to all questions, not refusing to answer but in such a general way that he will admit or deny nothing. After briefly enduring the HUAC questioning&nbsp;– including being asked to speak ill of the dead Hecky Brown&nbsp;– Howard takes a stand. He ends the interview with a blatant act of defiance, which gets him arrested and convicted for contempt of Congress, a punishment he accepts with pride.Josey Wales, a Missouri farmer, is driven to revenge by the murder of his wife and son by a band of pro-Union Jayhawkers—Senator James H. Lane's Redlegs from Kansas. Wales joins a group of pro-Confederate Missouri Bushwhackers led by William T. Anderson. At the conclusion of the war, Captain Fletcher persuades the guerrillas to surrender, saying they have been granted amnesty. Wales refuses to surrender. As a result, he and one young man are the only survivors when Captain Terrill's Redlegs massacre the surrendering men. Wales intervenes and guns down several Redlegs with a Gatling gun. Senator Lane puts a $5,000 bounty on Wales, who is now on the run from Union militia and bounty hunters. Along the way, despite wishing to be left alone, he accumulates a diverse group of companions. They include an old Cherokee named Lone Watie, a young Navajo woman, and an elderly woman from Kansas and her granddaughter Wales rescued from Comancheros. In Texas, Wales and his companions are cornered in a ranch house which is fortified to withstand Indian raids. The Redlegs attack but are gunned down by the defenders. Wales, despite being out of ammunition, pursues the fleeing Captain Terrill on horseback. When he catches him, Wales dry fires his pistols through all twenty–four empty chambers before stabbing Terrill with his own cavalry sword. At the bar in Santa Rio, a wounded Wales finds Fletcher with two Texas Rangers. The locals at the bar, who refer to Wales as "Mr. Wilson," tell the Rangers that Wales was killed in a shoot-out in Monterrey, Mexico. The Rangers accept this story and move on. Fletcher refuses to believe that Wales is dead. He says that he will go to Mexico and look for Wales himself. Seeing the blood dripping on Wales's boot, Fletcher says that he will give Wales the first move, because he "owes him that." Wales rides off.Four international criminals on the run from the law hide out in a remote village in Nicaragua whose economy is dependent on a major oil company. An oil well over 200 miles away has caught fire and can be extinguished only with explosives. The criminals are given a chance to earn a great deal of money, no questions asked, by driving trucks carrying unstable dynamite to the blaze. Because they were improperly stored, the sticks are now "sweating" nitroglycerin and could detonate if subjected to shock or vibration. Driving in teams of two, they meet various hazards on their journey, including a dilapidated rope-suspension bridge swinging violently in a huge storm over a flood-swollen river, a massive tree blocking the road, and a number of desperate, dangerous bandits.In 1925, Anton Phibes, a horribly disfigured genius supposedly killed in a car crash, is convinced that his beloved wife died a victim of incompetent doctors, and begins elaborate plans to kill them. Inspector Trout suspects Phibes, but finds little support from Scotland Yard. Eventually Dr. Vesalius, head of the team of doctors that operated on Phibes's wife, begins to believe Trout and aids him in the hunt for Phibes. Using various highly imaginative methods based on the Ten Plagues that befell Egypt in the Old Testament, and wearing a different amulet from a set of ten Hebrew letters that relate to the Ten Plagues, Phibes kills seven doctors and a nurse with the help of his beautiful and silent female assistant Vulnavia . He has reserved the final punishment for Dr. Vesalius. He kidnaps the doctor's son and places him on a table on which a container full of acid is waiting to destroy the boy's face. A small key implanted near the boy's heart will free him, but Vesalius must perform the surgery within six minutes to get the key before the acid falls. Vesalius succeeds and instead Vulnavia is sprayed with the acid as the police arrive. Convinced he has accomplished his vendetta, Phibes retreats to a stone sarcophagus beside the embalmed body of his wife. As he drains out his own blood and replaces it with embalming fluid the coffin's inlaid stone lid slides into place, concealing them both in darkness. Trout and the police arrive and discover that Phibes has mysteriously disappeared. Trout and Vesalius recall that the "final curse" was darkness and they speculate that they will encounter Phibes again.  Dr. Phibes takes his inspiration for the murders from the Old Testament, the Ten plagues of Egypt: #Boils: Prof. Thornton is stung to death by bees  #Bats: Dr. Dunwoody is mauled to death by bats #Frogs: Dr. Hargreaves's  head is crushed by a mechanical mask of a frog #Blood: Dr. Longstreet has all the blood drained out of his body #Hail: Dr. Hedgepath is frozen to death by a machine spewing ice #Rats: Dr. Kitaj crashes his plane when attacked by rats #Beasts: Dr. Whitcombe is impaled by a brass unicorn head #Locusts: Nurse Allen is eaten by locusts #Death of the first born: Phibes kidnaps and attempts to kill Dr. Vesalius's son Lem #Darkness: At the ambiguous ending of the film, Phibes drains the blood from his own body while injecting embalming fluid, apparently joining his wife in death.Joe Pendleton , a backup quarterback for the American football team Los Angeles Rams, is looking forward to leading his team to the Super Bowl. He is riding a bicycle through the Mulholland Drive tunnel under Sepulveda Boulevard in Los Angeles when he collides with a truck. An over-anxious guardian angel  on his first assignment plucks Joe out of his body early in the mistaken belief that his death is imminent, and Pendleton arrives in the afterlife. Once there, he refuses to believe that his time was up, and upon investigation, the mysterious Mr. Jordan  discovers that he is right; he was not destined to die until much later. Unfortunately, his body has already been cremated, so a new body must be found. After rejecting several possibilities , Joe is finally persuaded to accept the body of millionaire industrialist Leo Farnsworth. Farnsworth has just been drugged and drowned in his bathtub by his wife Julia  and her lover, Farnsworth's personal secretary, Tony Abbott . Julia and Tony are naturally confused when Farnsworth reappears, alive and well. Leo Farnsworth buys the Los Angeles Rams in order to lead them to the Super Bowl as their quarterback. In order to succeed, he must first convince, and then secure the aid of, long-time friend and trainer Max Corkle  to get his new body into shape. At the same time, he falls in love with an environmental activist, Betty Logan , who disapproves of Farnsworth's policies and actions. As the film's plotline heads toward the Super Bowl, the characters all face a crisis. Julia and Abbott continue their murderous plans, and Abbott shoots Farnsworth dead. The Rams are forced to start another quarterback, Thomas Jarrett, in the climactic football game. After a brutal hit on the field, Jarrett is himself killed. With Mr. Jordan's help, Joe then occupies his final body, that of Jarrett. Joe, in Jarrett's body, is shown leading the Rams to victory. During the team's post-game victory celebration, Mr. Jordan removes Joe's memory of his past life and departs. Joe becomes Thomas Jarrett and the cosmic balance is restored; the winning quarterback, Jarrett, is shown meeting Betty after the celebrations have ended, and as the film ends it is strongly implied that they are falling in love as a result of a mutual sense of déjà vu.{{plot}} The film opens with a flashback to 13th century Bouzano, Portugal. A peasant mob has captured the Templar knights and is preparing to burn them for witchcraft and murder. One of the captured knights swears revenge on the village. The villagers  burn the knights eyes out with torches before burning them to death. The film flashes ahead to the present where the village prepares for a festival celebrating the 500 year anniversary of the defeat of the Templars. The village idiot, Murdo, watches the preparations until being attacked and stoned by a pack of children. The children are run off by Moncha and Juan, romantically involved locals. Back in the town square, firework technician and former military captain, Jack Marlowe, meets the mayor, Duncan, his assistant, Dacosta, and his fiancee/ secretary, Vivian. It is revealed that Jack and Vivian have personal history, establishing a tension between the four characters. Jack and Vivian take a walk, where she reveals that she purposely hired Jack to rekindle their romance. Their walk takes them to the abbey graveyard where the Templars are buried. Their romantic interlude is interrupted by peeping Murdo, who proceeds to warn them of the Templars’ impending return. After Jack and Vivian depart, Murdo murders a young townswoman that he has kidnapped as a blood sacrifice. As the festival is in full swing the Templars, awakened by Murdo’s sacrifice, rise. At the festival Jack convinces Vivian to leave with him. Their interactions raise the ire of Duncan and Dacosta, who are a keeping a close eye on the pair. Back at the graveyard, the Templars ride down Murdo  and head toward town. On their way, they come across Moncha’s house where she is in the midst of a sexual rendezvous with Juan. Juan is killed but Moncha escapes on an undead Templar horse. She stops for help at the rail station, where she persuades Mr. Prades, the rail master, of the danger by revealing her zombie horse. She runs off, as Mr. Prades tries to call the mayor. While the phone rings in his office, the mayor dispatches Dacosta and his henchmen to assault Jack. The beating is finally interrupted when the call from the station agent gets through. The mayor is skeptical believes the agent to be drunk. He sends Dacosta to the station to take over. The Templars arrive at the station and kill Mr. Prades. Meanwhile, Jack and Vivian leave in Jack’s car. They encounter the traumatized Moncha in the middle of the road and bring her back to town. Dacosta and another of Duncan’s goons, Beirao, encounter the knights as they approach the train station. They hurry back to the village and warn the mayor of the oncoming horde. They mayor calls the governor to request help, but his pleas fall on deaf ears as the governor assumes Duncan to be drunk and reprimands him. The governor is the third person  to ignore warnings of the coming Templars, assuming the messenger to be drunk. The knights descend on the village and the festival turns into a massacre. Jack organizes Decastro and some of the villagers into a defense force, as Duncan scrambles to gather his valuables and then looks on from the balcony. Eventually Jack and Decastro clear an escape for most of the villagers. Jack, Vivian, Decastro, Monica and Duncan are all left behind. They try to get away in Jack’s car but are overwhelmed by zombies and escape into the church, where two of Duncan’s underlings, Beirao and Amalia, are holed up with their daughter. Once inside the church, the group finds Murdo hiding out. The survivors begin fortifying the church against the undead siege, but before long, unity begins to erode. After failing once again to convince the governor of their plight, Duncan persuades Beirao to make a break for the car. He is killed in the attempt. Meanwhile, Murdo persuades Moncha to come with him into the tunnels beneath the church to escape. After Beirao’s failed attempt, Duncan tries to escape using Beirao and Amalia’s young daughter as bait. He is killed and the child is left in grave peril among the Templars. Jack and Amalia manage to save her, with Amalia sacrificing her own life in the process. Down in the tunnels, Murdo is decapitated by the knights as he climbs out to the surface and Moncha is subsequently pulled by her head through the opening and killed. Back in the church, Dacosta catches Vivian alone. Resigned to a grim fate, he attempts to rape her before the Templars kill him. Jack rescues Vivian, and Dacosta is impaled on a spear in the ensuing scuffle. As the night wears on, Jack and Vivian decide to chance escaping. They convince Amalia’s daughter that the zombies and her mother’s death were both part of a nightmare and then blindfold her as they attempt to silently creep through the square full of blind d knights. As they slip past the monsters, the little girl peeks out of her blindfold and screams as she sees the zombies surrounding them. However, the Templars make no move, and then crumple to the ground in the breaking morning light. Jack, Vivian and the child walk away from the village as the credits roll.Teenager Karen Braden  is a troubled mental hospital outpatient who is taken by her father George and sister Isa to a government facility near the Craters of the Moon lava fields in Idaho. The project there was commissioned to develop matter transference, but made a different discovery: time travel. They also discovered that a mysterious ecological catastrophe will soon wipe out civilization. The time travel process has negative health effects, though. Adults "not much older than 20" are unable to survive for long, as their kidneys hemorrhage shortly after the experience. So the scientists decide to only send young people 56 years into the future so they can build a new civilization. After the government takes over the project, the transfer machines are turned off, trapping a large number of project members in the future. Now trapped, they begin exploring the future world.Kenny Dantley  is a car-loving Southern California high school senior. For a project in his shop class, Kenny helps build a customized Chevrolet Corvette Stingray with right-hand-drive. Shortly after the new set of wheels is unveiled, the car is stolen from the streets of Van Nuys. Kenny immediately sets out on the trail of the thieves, which takes him to Las Vegas. On the way, he meets Vanessa  who is a self-described "prostitute-in-training." Kenny finds work in a Vegas gas station, and one day spots his car. He follows it to a local garage, where he has a run-in with the garage owner, Wayne Lowry , before being rescued by Vanessa. Lowry contacts Kenny’s high school teacher, Ed McGrath , and McGrath then comes to Las Vegas. During a conversation with McGrath, Kenny is crushed to learn that this admired teacher of his had arranged for the theft of the Corvette to help himself out of financial trouble. When McGrath suggests Kenny go to work for Lowry, Kenny agrees to it. He will make good money, but secretly plans to steal the Corvette back from Lowry, Eventually, Kenny completes his plans, steals the car back, saves Vanessa from her life of prostitution, wins a wild car chase, and returns in triumph with the Corvette – and Vanessa – to his old high school.Harry Spikes is an aging bank robber of the fading "Old West." Injured and near death, he is found and mended back to health by three impressionable youths who are lifelong friends -- Wil, Tod, and Les. Later, encouraged by Spikes's reminiscences, they run away from home seeking excitement and easy living. Reunited with Spikes on several occasions, the boys follow his tutoring, ultimately resulting in the gravest of consequences.As one of the character is saying at the beginning of the movie: L'alpagueur c'est un chasseur de tête, c'est un mercenaire, un marginal. L'alpagueur c'est l'astuce qu'a trouvé un haut fonctionnaire pour passer au-dessus de la routine policière. The alpagueur is a head hunter, a mercenary, a marginal. The alpagueur is a trick made up by a state employee to be above the cop's routine. Originally a deer hunter, l'Alpagueur became a head hunter working for the police, paid by them with money stolen from criminals. The main plot revolves around l'Alpagueur's pursuit of l'Épervier,  a bank robber and an assassin, who kills whoever sees him commit a crime. His technique is to pay a young and naive man to be his accomplice and kill him right after. One of his accomplices, Costa Valdez, is only wounded during one of his hold ups, and with his help, l'Alpagueur manages to find l'Épervier at the end.Junior "JR" Bonner is a rodeo rider who is slightly "over the hill". Junior is first seen taping up his injuries after an unsuccessful ride on an ornery bull named Sunshine. He returns home to Prescott, Arizona for the Independence Day parade and rodeo. When he arrives, the Bonner family home is being bulldozed by his younger brother Curly, an entrepreneur and real-estate developer, in order to build ranch homes. Junior's womanizing, good-for-nothing father Ace and down-to-earth, long-suffering mother Elvira are estranged.  Ace dreams of emigrating to Australia to rear sheep and mine gold, but he fails to obtain financing from Junior, who is broke, and refuses to ask Curly for it. After flooring his arrogant brother with a punch, Junior bribes rodeo owner Buck Roan to let him ride Sunshine again, promising him half the prize money. Buck thinks he must be crazy but Junior actually manages to pull it off this time, going the full eight seconds on the bull. Junior walks into a travel agent's office and buys his father a one-way, first-class ticket to Australia. The film's final shot shows JR leaving his hometown, his successful ride on Sunshine continuing to put off the inevitable end of his career.Tracking two lost lumberjacks through the night, a rescue team nearly follows a hound over a cliff. Two men rappel down to retrieve the fallen hound, but they are killed. The third, hearing screams down below, rappels down to investigate, where he finds his team mates dead, killed by a unknown thing. The third is then, killed by a unseen force Dr. Robert Verne  is fed up with dealing with the squalor of city tenements. He does not feel he is making a difference. He accepts a job from the Environmental Protection Agency to write a report on a logging operation near the Androscoggin River in Maine. The loggers are in a dispute with the local American Indian "Opies" , the original people. Dr. Verne's wife Maggie  accompanies him on the trip. She is pregnant but is apprehensive to tell her husband as he is set against having children. When they fly in, they meet a man, Travis Nelson  and his two children Paul and Kathleen who are embarking on a trek into the wilderness. They also meet Bethel Isely , the director of the paper mill, who is to be their host. He tells them about his missing rescue team and lays the blame at the feet of the Opies. The latter have their own explanation: Katahdin, a vengeful spirit of the forest that has been awakened by the activities of the loggers. Isely describes Katahdin as "larger than a dragon with the eyes of a cat". As Isely drives the couple to their cabin, their path is barred by a party of Opies. They refuse to let Isely's people pass and a fight ensues between the leader of the Opies John Hawks  and Kelso , one of Isely's heavies. The heavy is armed with a chainsaw while Hawks has only a broadaxe. The scuffle ends with Hawks laid on the ground with the chainsaw at his throat. The Opies relent and let the cars pass. Verne and Maggie are visibly shocked by the incident. While fishing, Verne sees a huge salmon devour a duck. Later, after he and Maggie have eaten his catch, they are attacked in their cabin by a deranged raccoon. Verne kills it and sends a tissue sample to be tested. The next day Hawks and his wife Ramona  approach Dr. Verne to put over their side of the story. If Verne is concerned about the environment then he should include the people in his assessment. Something is making the people ill: still births, mental illness and birth defects are rife. Hawks takes Verne and Maggie to the home of Hector M'Rai , Ramona's grandfather. Hector claims to have seen Katahdin and describes him as "part of everything in God's creation". Verne sees plant roots growing on the surface that should be underground; Hawk nets a bullfrog-sized tadpole from the water to show Verne; Hector has cigarette burns on his hand but feels no pain. As the evidence mounts the idyllic setting gradually takes on a sinister hue. Verne and Maggie tour the paper mill to look for incriminating evidence but the chemicals used in the processing are demonstrated to never leave the plant. Isely tells them that the water is routinely tested for purity. As they leave, however, Verne notices mercury deposits on Maggie's boots. It is a mutagen that causes birth defects and progressive nerve damage. It has long been used in logging as a fungicide because it is cheap. It will not show up in Isely's water purity tests because it sinks to the bottom. Verne needs more evidence and determines to take blood tests from the Opies. That night, the Nelson family, who have set up a camp in the woods, are suddenly assaulted by a ferocious monster. The horrified Paul tries to flee, but the beast spanks him into a rock, killing him. The next day as Verne and Maggie are taking blood samples, Isely and Sheriff Bartholomew Pilgrim  arrive to arrest Hawks and his men whom they mistakenly believe to be the ones who killed the Nelson family. Hawks, however, escapes. Verne, Maggie and Ramona take a helicopter to the campsite to investigate the killings. Verne and Ramona find huge scratch marks on the trees while Maggie finds two mutated bear cubs trapped in a salmon poacher's net. One of the cubs is still alive and Verne is determined to save it so it can serve as empirical evidence of the contamination. However, the weather has turned and the pilot, Huntoon , refuses to take off in the high wind. They make for Hector's home and Verne sends Hawks to fetch Isely and the sheriff. Verne sets up an emergency room in one of Hector's tepees and helps the cub survive. Maggie is clearly distressed by the ordeal so Verne takes her aside and assures her that it will all be over soon. She tells him that their nightmare is just beginning: she is pregnant and she has eaten contaminated fish like the mother of the cubs. Isely and Sheriff Pilgrim arrive and see the mutant cub. Isely is contrite, knowing that Hawks and his men weren't the killers. Hector arrives. Then all hell breaks loose as the horribly mutated bear attacks the camp in search of her cubs. Everyone seeks shelter in tunnels beneath Hector's home. All goes quiet so Pilgrim decides to check it out. He pokes his head up out of the tunnel and Katahdin kills him. The next day, the survivors make their way out of the forest. The helicopter is not an option as Huntoon was severely mauled in the beast's initial attack. Isely heads up to Mount Emery to try to reach a radio tower and call for help. Isley finds the radio tower but the monster immediately finds him and before Isley is able to call help, Katahdin kills him as well. The others find the Opie village mysteriously isolated and the Opie people gone, but take a truck and try to drive out along the winding forest road. Katahdin turns the truck over and finishes Huntoon off by devouring his head. The others run off through the forest with the beast in pursuit. They arrive at the river and swim across. The cub continues to bite Maggie but Rob pulls it off her and holds it underwater drowning it. Hector stays behind to make Katahdin flee but fails and he is killed as well. Katahdin seems reluctant to follow them at first, but then enters the water and vanishes. They believe she drowned but then she suddenly emerges. They take shelter in a log cabin, but Katahdin tears down the walls. Maggie is knocked unconscious by debris but Ramona is crushed to death. Verne finds a Winchester Model 71 in the cabin and shoots the monster twice with some effect. Hawks shoots arrows into Katahdin's hide until the beast sends him airborne with a mighty swat from her paws, then he lands on the ground, dead. Verne picks up an arrow, then Katahdin hoists him up, only to be stabbed repetitively in the face and eyes until she collapses into the lake. Rob notices that the monster still moves slightly and leaps onto the beast and stabs her a few more times until her corpse finally sinks below the water. Verne and Maggie fly over the forest the next day, but the final scene reveals that there is another mutant animal awaiting to unleash its reign of terror.Harry Caul  is a surveillance expert who runs his own company in San Francisco. Highly respected by others in the profession, Caul is obsessed with his own privacy; his apartment is almost bare behind its triple-locked door and burglar alarm, he uses pay phones to make calls, claims to have no home telephone and his office is enclosed in wire mesh in a corner of a much larger warehouse. Caul is utterly professional at work but finds personal contact extremely difficult because he is intensely secretive about even the most trivial aspects of his life. Dense crowds make him feel uncomfortable and he is withdrawn and taciturn in more intimate social situations. He is also reticent and obsessively secretive with work colleagues. His appearance is nondescript, except for his habit of wearing a translucent grey plastic raincoat almost everywhere he goes, even when it is not raining. Despite Caul's insistence that his professional code means that he is not responsible for the actual content of the conversations he records or for the use to which his clients put his surveillance activities, he feels wracked by guilt over a past wiretap job which resulted in the murder of three people. This sense of guilt is amplified by his devout Catholicism. His one hobby is playing along to jazz records on a tenor saxophone in the privacy of his apartment. Caul, his colleague Stan  and some freelance associates have taken on the task of bugging the conversation of a couple  as they walk through crowded Union Square in San Francisco, surrounded by a cacophony of background noise. Amid the small-talk, the couple discuss fears that they are being watched, and mention a discreet meeting at a hotel room in a few days. The challenging task of recording this conversation is accomplished by multiple surveillance operatives located in different positions around the square. After Caul has worked his magic on merging and filtering different tapes, he produces a sound recording in which the words themselves become crystal clear, but their actual meaning remains ambiguous. Although Caul cannot understand the true meaning of the conversation, he finds the cryptic nuances and emotional undercurrents contained within it deeply troubling. Sensing danger, Caul feels increasingly uneasy about what may happen to the couple once the client hears the tape. He plays the tape again and again throughout the movie, gradually refining its accuracy. He concentrates on one key phrase hidden under the sound of a street musician: "He'd kill us if he had the chance". Caul constantly reinterprets the speakers' subtle emphasis on particular words in this phrase, trying to figure out their meaning in the light of what he suspects and subsequently discovers. Caul avoids handing in the tape to the aide  of the man who commissioned the surveillance . Afterwards, he finds himself under increasing pressure from the client's aide and is himself followed, tricked, and bugged. The tape of the conversation is eventually stolen from him in a moment when his guard is down. Tormented by guilt over what he fears will happen to the couple, Caul's desperate efforts to forestall tragedy ultimately fail. To Caul's surprise, it turns out that the conversation he had obsessed over might not mean what he thought it did: the tragedy he had anticipated differs from the one which eventually occurs. To Caul's surprise, the Director was killed in a "car accident", however Caul knows that in fact he was murdered by the couple in the hotel they referred to in their conversation. He now realizes that the statement "He would kill us if he had the chance" was a rationalization of the couple's decision to kill him. When a phone call informs Caul that "We know that you know; keep your mouth shut", he believes his own apartment has been bugged and goes on a frantic search for the listening device, tearing up walls and floorboards and ultimately destroying his apartment - to no avail. The film's end leaves him sitting amidst the wreckage, playing one of the only things in his apartment left intact: his saxophone.Walter Elbertson is a young, shy asthmatic who lacks direction in his life and the confidence to tackle his future. His father, in an effort to instill some spirit into his son, sends him on a biking holiday in Spain. Walter goes to Spain but finds the bike riding torturous to his asthma and lags behind the rest of the group. Meanwhile, Lila Fisher is touring Spain by bus. She too is awkward with people and keeps to herself, and looks uncomfortable when a Spaniard tries to woo her with bird noises. Soon the two tours coincide and, seeing the bus about to depart, Walter decides he has had enough of the bike tour and joins the bus tour. He ends up alongside Lila on the rear bus seat, and is wheezing terribly from the ordeal of running for the bus. The two begin spending time together out of necessity, but neither seems particularly confident in the growing relationship, Lila particularly. However, their similar dispositions soon bring them closer and they move past their fear and consummate their relationship. Their relationship does not always run smoothly, as both show intermittent doubt of the other's loyalty. They have fights which, as they resolve and they are compelled to make pledges of their commitment to one another, increase their intimacy, and strengthen their bond. They eventually decide to leave the bus tour behind and Walter organises a small caravan to take them around the country. At one point, they meet The Duke, who lives in a large Spanish castle, and seems to be very taken with Lila. This awakens the fever of jealousy in Walter, and for the first time he acts with strength and resolve to keep her with him. The film ends with Lila, who has shown signs of illness at various points in the film, confessing to Walter that she has not long to live. The two determine, with Walter as the main instigator, to spend the days remaining to her travelling, free and following their hearts, together.Special Delivery "S.D." Kluger  is introduced. His mail truck breaks down, so he begins to tell the story of Santa Claus, in order to answer children's letters to Santa. The story begins in a gloomy small town called Sombertown, which is ruled by the grouchy, ill-tempered, child-hating Burgermeister Meisterburger . A baby arrives on his doorstep, with a name tag reading "Claus" and note requesting that Burgermeister raise the child as his own. However, Burgermeister angrily orders his right-hand man, Grimsby  to take the baby to the "Orphan Asylum." On the way there, a gust of wind blows both sled and baby far away, to the mountains of the Whispering Winds. There, the animals hide him from the Winter Warlock , a powerful wizard who dislikes anyone trespassing his land. They bring the baby to the other side of the mountain, where he is found by an elf family by the name of Kringle, led by Tanta Kringle. They adopt him, naming him “Kris.” A few years later, Kris hopes that he can one day restore the Kringle family as "The First Toymakers to the King." However, the fact that the Kringles can't pass the mountains without coming across the Winter Warlock has kept them from doing so. When Kris is old enough, he volunteers to deliver the toys to Sombertown. Meanwhile, the Burgermeister has outlawed all toys in the town, having been injured by tripping over a toy duck while walking out of City Hall. He declares that anyone found possessing a toy will be arrested and thrown in the dungeon. Before Kris makes it into the town, he meets a lost penguin who he names Topper. Once Kris enters the town, he meets two children washing their stocking by a water fountain before Kris could give the children the Kringle made toys he is stopped by Miss Jessica , a schoolteacher. She is at first rude to Kris, but likes him when he offers her a China doll as a "peace offering". However, the other townspeople are even frightened by Kris saying "toy" and are questioning him about the "clothes" that he was wearing. The children of the town have been put into labor, mostly washing their stockings. Kris decides to change that and begins handing out toys. Just then, the Burgermeister arrives. Seeing the children playing with the toys, he almost arrests the children, but Kris confesses it was he that gave them the toys. He tries presenting the Burgermeister with a Yo-yo in which the Burgermeister happily played while recalling when as a child that he loved the Yo-yo and loved to do tricks with one, only for Grimsby to remind him that he's breaking his own law. Kris barely manages to escape the Burgermeister's forces. As Kris and Topper pass through the forest, the Winter Warlock's magic trees capture Kris and Topper. Kris tries to get out of trouble by offering the warlock one of his toys. He gives him a toy train, and melts the Warlock's evil icy heart. Touched by this act of kindness, the Warlock, now wanting to call himself Winter, turns to human form and befriends Kris. To repay him, Winter shows Kris how to make a magic snowball, showing that Jessica is searching for him. Kris finds Jessica, who informs him that the Burgermeister destroyed all of the toys and the children now request new ones. Kris becomes burdened every night with the ever increasing demands, while the Burgermeister implements harsher measures to ensure that he does not succeed. When Burgermeister hears that Kris is going to bring more toys, he orders all doors to be locked, before their houses are searched. Kris then uses the chimneys to get inside. The children hung their stockings by the fireplace to bluff the Burgermeister so he thinks that the stockings were being dried in front of the fireplace but it was a sign to Kris that he could put their gifts inside, so that Burgermeister can't find them. Growing frustrated with his inability to stop Kris, the Burgermeister sets a trap for him as he makes another delivery, as well as jails the Kringles, Topper and Winter. Jessica pleas to the Burgermeister to release Kris, the Kringle clan, and Winter but her pleas falls on deaf ears. Realising now that all of Sombertown and the Burgermeister are against her, Jessica visits the dungeon. She tries pleading Winter to use his magic to break everyone out, but the old warlock despondently feels that he has no more magic left except for a few items, including magic feed corn, but it can only make reindeer fly. Jessica gives Kris's reindeer friends some feed corn, and with the help of the flying deer, the Kringles, Kris, Topper, and Winter escape. After having spent months of being an outlaw and discovering that their home was destroyed by the Burgermeister troops, Kris returns to the woods, where he since he's a full fledge Kringle grows a beard as a disguise. Tante suggests that he return to his real birth name "Claus" for safety. Kris asks Jessica to share the name Claus with him, as his wife. After the marriage, the group travels to the North Pole, where they eventually build Santa Claus's Castle and Workshop. Eventually, everyone realizes how silly the Burgermeister's laws were. Kris' legend goes worldwide, and, having now become Santa Claus, he realizes that he cannot keep up with all the toy requests. This leads him to his decision to visit just once a year, on December 24 Christmas Eve "The Night of Profound Love". The film ends as S.D. Kluger reflects on what Santa's real meaning is all about even though there are a few misguided people who do not understand what the real meaning is . Just then, though, S.D. remembers that he still has to deliver the letters to Santa. Then, joined by Topper, Winter The Kringle Bros, and a parade of children from the town once known as Sombertown, S.D. begins to sing "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town". The film's closing scene has Kris and Jessica in silhouette, as he puts his old hat back on his head. Then, Santa steps out of his Palace, revealing himself in full splendor.Small-time gangster Ugo Piazza  gets released from prison. He tries to convince the police, the mafia, his psychotic ex-friend Rocco  and his girlfriend Nelly Bordon  that he wants to go straight, but everyone believes he has $300,000 of stolen money hidden somewhere.Four years after the events of Jaws, two divers are photographing the wreck of the Orca, Quint's boat from the first film. They are suddenly attacked by a large great white shark, and during the attack one of the divers' camera gets a photo of the shark's profile. A few days later, the shark enters the coastal waters of Amity Island, killing a female water skier. The female driver of the speedboat tries to defend herself by first throwing a gasoline tank at the shark  and then igniting the fuel with a flare gun. The fire ignites the gas tank and the speedboat explodes, killing the driver. Though burned on the right side of its head, the shark survives. In addition to these incidents, a dead killer whale is beached at a nearby lighthouse with large wounds all over its body which Police Chief Martin Brody  suggests were caused by a great white shark. Once again, Mayor Vaughn  doesn't share Brody's belief that the town has another shark problem and warns him not to press the issue. Later, Brody spots a section of a ruined speedboat bobbing in the surf just off the beach. When he goes to retrieve it, he encounters the burnt remains of the female speedboat driver. Brody stops his 17-year-old son Mike  from going sailing, and finds him a summer job working at the beach. The following day, while Brody is in an observation tower, he sees a large shadow produced by a school of bluefish, which he mistakes for a shark. In his haste, Brody orders everyone out of the water and fires his gun, causing a panic. Later that evening, he receives the photo of the shark's eye, taken by one of the attacked divers. Brody shows it to Vaughn and his townsmen, but they refuse to accept the evidence put in front of them. Len Peterson ,who has built a new resort in Amity to attract people, and the town council fire Brody for the beach incident, with Mayor Vaughn being the only one to vote against dismissal. Deputy Hendricks  is promoted to Brody's position. The next morning, Mike sneaks out and goes sailing with his friends, but has to take his young brother Sean  along to stop him telling his parents about Mike's trip. Later, they go past a group of divers led by Tom Andrews . Tom encounters the shark minutes after entering the water to catch lobsters and escapes, but suffers an embolism due to rushing to the surface too fast. Tina  and Eddie  later encounter the shark when it smashes into their sailboat, devouring Eddie and leaving Tina traumatized and alone. Brody and his wife Ellen  find Andrews being put into an ambulance, and Brody suspects that something must have scared him to make him come up so fast. Hendricks informs Brody that Mike has gone out sailing to the lighthouse with his friends, so Brody insists on taking the police patrol boat to rescue them, with Ellen and Hendricks both joining him. They find Tina's boat, with Tina hiding in the hull, who confirms Brody's suspicions about the shark in the area. Hendricks and Ellen take Tina ashore in a passing boat, while Brody continues to search for the teenagers using the police launch. All seems well with the other teenagers until the shark appears. The shark then smashes into one of their sail boats, causing panic and their boats to collide with each other. Mike is knocked unconscious and is pulled out of the water just as the shark appears; two friends take him back to the shore for help. The rest of the teens remain floating on the wreckage of tangled boats, drifting out toward the open sea. A harbor patrol marine helicopter arrives and a line is rigged to tow the boats to shore, but before the pilot can tow them, the shark attacks the chopper causing it to sink into the water. Sean also falls into the water, but he is quickly saved by Marge . As Marge tries to get back into the boat, her hands slip on the wet hull, and she falls back into the water. The shark approaches and devours Marge. Back at mainland, Tina is sent to the hospital, and Ellen berates Peterson for getting Brody fired and denying the shark's presence. Brody finds Mike, who informs his father about the situation. Sean and his friends are drifting on the wreckage toward Cable Junction , with the open sea beyond it. Brody quickly finds the teenagers, but the shark attacks again, which causes Brody to run his boat aground on the rocks. Brody tries to tie a rope line, but snags an underwater power cable instead. Most of the teenagers are tossed into the water during the shark's next attack, and they swim to safety on Cable Junction, though the shark injures Lucy while Sean and Jackie are left marooned on one of the boats. Using an inflatable raft, Brody gets the shark's attention by pounding the power line with an oar , and gets the shark to bite the power cable. The plan succeeds: the shark gets electrocuted, dies and sinks to the bottom of the sea. Brody collects Sean and Jackie and paddles over to Cable Junction, to await rescue with the other teenagers.The wandering swordsman Yu Hsieh Erh travels around seeking adventure and meets a group of bandits who are planning to rob a convoy escorting some valuables. Initially, he is tricked by them into participating in the robbery but then realises his folly and he returns to take his revenge on them.The movie begins in Atlanta federal penitentiary, where an aging prisoner named Joseph Valachi  is imprisoned for smuggling heroin. The boss of his crime family, Vito Genovese , is imprisoned there as well. Genovese is certain that Valachi is an informant, and gives him the "kiss of death." Valachi kisses him back. Valachi mistakenly kills a fellow prisoner who he wrongly thinks is a mob assassin. Told of the mistake by federal agents, Valachi becomes an informant, the first in the history of the Mafia. He tells his life story in flashback. The movie traces Valachi from a young punk to a gangster associating with bosses like Salvatore Maranzano . Maranzano tells a mourner at a funeral, "I cannot bring back the dead. I can only kill the living." Valachi marries a boss's daughter, played by Bronson's real-life wife Jill Ireland. Valachi's rise in the Mafia is hampered by his poor relations with his capo, Tony Bender . Bender is portrayed castrating a mobster for having relations with another mobster's wife. Valachi shoots the man to put him out of his misery. The mayhem and murder continue to the present, with Valachi shown testifying before a Senate committee. He is upset with having to testify and attempts suicide, but in the end  outlives Genovese, who dies in prison.When Chato, who is half Apache, kills the local sheriff, in self-defense, a former Confederate officer, Capt. Quincey Whitmore gathers a posse to hunt him down. It includes a number of local ranchers and townspeople, as well as a Mexican who is used as a scout and tracker. The posse pursues Chato into the wilderness, deliberately led into Apache country by him. Chato sabotages their water supply and puts several of their horses to flight. In retaliation, some members of the posse brutally assault Chato's woman, raping her and murdering his friend. Disagreements flare while Chato picks them off one by one. It gradually begins to dawn on the remainder of the posse that they are the ones being hunted.His arrival into town this time is clouded by unrest at the local factory when workers seek to unionize, and local authorities wrongly suspect John as a fomenter in that cause. The suspicions of the police and Doc Thomas' son, a lawyer for the company, grow as they uncover John's passport filled with stamps of visas from the many countries that he had visited, even those that few Americans are allowed to travel to; and they realize that he speaks and writes in the different languages of the countries to which he had traveled. Only Doc Thomas suspects that John's real purpose is something else.The movie opens with German children's song Hänschen klein mixed with black and white footage of prewar and war scenes, followed by a segue to color and a German platoon raid on a Russian forward outpost led by Corporal Steiner, the main character. An aristocratic Prussian officer, Captain Stransky , is posted as a new battalion commander in the Kuban bridgehead on the Eastern Front in 1943. Stransky proudly tells the regimental commander, Colonel Brandt , and his adjutant, Captain Kiesel ([[David Warner , that he applied for transfer from occupied France to front line duty in Russia so that he can win the Iron Cross. Veteran, highly-respected Corporal Steiner  leads his Wehrmacht infantry platoon on a reconnaissance patrol, during which his men capture a young Russian boy-soldier . When Stransky meets Steiner for the first time, he orders Steiner to shoot the prisoner in strict observance of a standing order. When Steiner refuses, Stransky prepares to shoot the boy himself, but at the last moment, Private Reisenauer  saves the boy by volunteering to do it. Later, Stransky informs Steiner that he has been promoted to Senior Sergeant, and is puzzled by Steiner's nonchalant response. Stransky also discovers that his adjutant, Lieutenant Triebig , is a closet homosexual when Stransky surreptitiously sees Triebig stroking the cheek of an enlisted orderly, Josef Keppler. While waiting for an anticipated attack, Steiner releases the young Russian only to see the boy killed by advancing Soviet troops. As Stransky cowers in his bunker, Lieutenant Meyer , the respected leader of Steiner's platoon, is killed while leading a successful counterattack. Steiner is wounded in the same battle trying to rescue a German soldier and is sent to a military hospital to recover. There, he is haunted by the faces of the dead men and the boy , and has a romantic liaison with a nurse . After he has recovered, Steiner is offered a home leave but decides instead to return to his men. When he arrives, Steiner is informed that Stransky has claimed that he led the successful counterattack, not Meyer, and has been nominated for the Iron Cross. Stransky named as witnesses Triebig , and Steiner. Stransky tries to persuade Steiner to corroborate his claim by promising to look after him after the war. Brandt questions Steiner in the hope that he will expose Stransky's lies, but Steiner only states that he hates all officers, even those as "enlightened" as Brandt and Kiesel, and requests a few days to ponder his answer. When his battalion is ordered to retreat, Stransky does not pass the order to Steiner's platoon, abandoning them. Making their way back through now enemy territory, the men stumble across and capture an all-female Russian detachment. While Steiner is busy, Zoll , a despised Nazi Party member, takes one of the women into the barn for his own private pleasure, only to have her bite off his genitals. He kills her. Meanwhile, the young soldier Dietz, left to guard the rest of the women alone, is distracted and killed as well. Disgusted, Steiner locks Zoll up with the vengeful Russian women, taking only their uniforms to use as a disguise. The platoon eventually reaches the German positions, sending a message ahead by radio so they can cross no man's land safely. Stransky suggests to Triebig that Steiner and his men could be 'mistaken' for Russians. Triebig orders his men to shoot down the incoming Germans; only Steiner and two others survive. Triebig denies responsibility, but Steiner kills him and goes looking for Stransky. At this moment, the Soviets launch a major assault. Brandt orders Kiesel to be evacuated, telling him that men like him will be needed to rebuild Germany after the war. Brandt then rallies the fleeing troops for a hopeless counterattack. Steiner confronts Stransky and contemplates shooting him, but instead contemptuously arms him and turns his back. Stung, Stransky accepts Steiner's challenge to earn his medal, and they head off to the fighting. The film closes with Stransky trying to figure out how to reload his MP40, while being shot at by an adolescent Russian soldier. When he begs Steiner for help, Steiner begins to laugh. The laughing continues through the credits and pictures of civilian victims from World War II and later conflicts.As part of a public relations and marketing strategy to compare the empathy of Big Tobacco to the nobility of the Nobel Peace Prize, advertising executive Merwin Wren  convinces the Valiant Tobacco Company to propose a challenge: a tax-free check for $25,000,000. to any city or town in America that can stop smoking, or go cold turkey, for thirty days. According to Wren, the offer will generate Valiant worldwide free publicity and praise as a humanitarian gesture, but no town in America would ever be able to claim the prize, cigarette smoking being too addictive to stop. The Reverend Clayton Brooks , a kindly but fearsome minister of the Eagle Rock Community Church, takes up the challenge as a spiritual call. He urges the economically depressed fictional community of Eagle Rock , Iowa, to go for the prize. The town council has been trying to woo back the military ever since it closed a base a few years back, hoping its return would help the local cash flow. Families have been moving out almost on a monthly basis and the town center is almost deserted. Reverend Brooks recruits every smoker in the town to sign up. Needled for not smoking himself , he begins to find solidarity with his "flock." At midnight, the challenge begins. For the next thirty days, no smoking is permitted, Eagle Rock being the only city in America that got all of its smokers to pledge. The tobacco company sends Merwin to report the progress of the townspeople's commitment. The company needs just one person to fail. Among the weakest: alcoholic Edgar Stopworth ; the elderly Doctor Proctor , who must always have a cigarette before surgery, and the anxiety-ridden wife of the mayor, Mrs. Wappler , who counts the small gherkin pickles she eats as the hours pass. However, a group of 29 non-smoking residents, all members of the ultra-conservative Christopher Mott Society  have been asked by Brooks to police all traffic entering Eagle Rock to ensure no tobacco products enter. A running gag ensues when elderly Odie Turman  keeps needling leader Amos Bush  about his pistol, which she later steals. Eventually, the attention of the nation's leading newscasters at the time , turns the small community's efforts into a matter of highly publicized failure or success. Soon the community is invaded by buxom "massage therapists," beer vendors, souvenir shops and more. Rev. Clayton appears on a Time magazine cover, which leads him to another epiphany: if he can save the town, he will be a hero. Merwin is told by Valiant's board members to undermine the town's efforts at all costs, doing whatever he can to get someone to smoke before the thirty days are up, leading to hilarious results as the clock ticks down.Diane  and has decided to date gentleman Harry  for a weekend getaway at Harry's remote country house by a lake. It soon gets obvious to them both, that they are not made for each other and they start arguing. But this fact will not remain their primary problem for very long. On their way to Harry's country house they had encountered a car load of drunken thugs, led by Lep  and had got into a fit of road rage where Diane forces the punks off the road, wrecking them. Little do Diane and Harry know that the angry gang has followed them, looking for some vicious revenge against the arguing, unhappy and unarmed couple.Charlie  is a young Italian-American man who is trying to move up in the local New York Mafia but is hampered by his feeling of responsibility towards his reckless friend, Johnny Boy , a small-time gambler who owes money to many loan sharks. Charlie works for his uncle, Giovanni , the local caporegime, mostly collecting debts. He is also having a hidden affair with Johnny Boy's cousin, Teresa , who has epilepsy and is ostracized because of her condition — especially by Charlie's uncle. Charlie is torn between his devout Catholicism and his Mafia ambitions. As the film progresses, Johnny becomes increasingly self-destructive, growing continually more disrespectful of his creditors. Failing to receive redemption in the church, Charlie seeks it through sacrificing himself on Johnny's behalf. At a bar, a local loan shark named Michael , comes looking for Johnny to "pay up", but to his surprise, Johnny insults him. Michael lunges at Johnny who retaliates by pulling a gun on him. After a tense standoff, Michael walks away, and Charlie and Johnny decide to leave town for a brief period with Teresa. After a calm getaway by car, the trio is eventually pursued by Michael and his henchman, in another car. The henchman fires shots at Charlie's car, hitting Johnny in the neck, and Charlie in the hand, causing Charlie to crash the car. The film ends with an ambulance and police arriving at the scene, and paramedics take them away.After a collision between a comet and an asteroid named Orpheus, a five-mile-wide chunk of Orpheus is set on a collision course with Earth, with devastating results expected on impact. While the United States government and military engage in political maneuvering, other smaller and faster moving fragments rain down on Earth. The United States has a secret orbiting nuclear missile platform satellite named Hercules, which was thought of by Dr. Paul Bradley  of the U.S. It was intended for defense against a massive space rock, but instead, it was demoted to an orbiting super weapon, its missiles now aimed at Russia. However, its fourteen nuclear missile armament is not enough to stop the meteor. The U.S. government discovers the existence of another weapon satellite constructed by the Soviet Union. The President  goes on national television and reveals the existence of Hercules, explaining it as a foresighted project to meet the threat that Orpheus represents. He also offers the Soviets a chance to save face and join in by saying they had the same foresight and have their own satellite weapon. Bradley requests a scientist named Dr. Alexei Dubov  to help him plan a counter-effort against Orpheus. Bradley and Harry Sherwood  from NASA have already arrived at the control center for Hercules, which is located beneath the AT&T Building  in Lower Manhattan. Major-General Adlon  is the commander of the facility. Dubov and his assistant and interpreter Tatiana Donskaya  arrive and Bradley works at breaking the ice of distrust held by Hercules commander Adlon. Since Dubov cannot admit the existence of the Soviet device, he agrees to Bradley's proposal that they work on the "theoretical" application of how a "theoretical" Soviet space platform's weapons would be coordinated with the American ones. Meanwhile, further fragments of the meteor affect Earth, and the Soviets finally admit that they have the device and are willing to join in the effort. It appears that the satellite has a lot in common with Hercules, it was built with sixteen nuclear missiles for defense against a massive space rock, but it too was demoted to an orbiting super weapon, its missiles now aimed at the United States. The satellite is christened Peter the Great by the joint US-Soviet team working at Hercules control, and both satellites are turned around to aim into space. Unfortunately, smaller fragments and "splinters" still continue to strike many places on Earth, some causing great damage, including in Hong Kong, where a fragment hits the ocean and causes a tsunami that devastates the city. On Sunday morning, Peter the Great's missiles are fired off because of its position along the orbit, Herculess missiles are fired 40 minutes later. Just after Herculess missiles are fired off, New York is struck by a large fragment of the meteor, destroying most of the city. Several workers inside the control center are killed when the facility is partially destroyed and the survivors slowly work their way out of the control center by going through the New York subway system, which has become somewhat of a trap due to the East River breaking into the tunnels. Meanwhile, the two sets of guided missiles link up into three waves of mixed nationality, each wave bigger than the last. The Hercules crew reach a subway station filled with other people and wait while others try to dig out. Back in space, the missiles reach the meteor. Two Russian missiles and one U.S. missile have been lost in the journey. The first wave of missiles strikes the space rock, making an explosion. The second wave follows with a bigger explosion. Finally, the third wave hits the meteor making an explosion that fills the screen. When the dust settles, the space rock is nowhere to be seen. Back at New York, the radio stations broadcast news of the result: Orpheus has been either obliterated or shifted to a harmless trajectory. Just then, the subway station occupants are rescued. The scene then switches to an airport some time later, with a Soviet flag and an American flag on an open hangar door. From here, Dubov and Tatiana say goodbye to Bradley and others, then they board a plane with the Soviet star and it takes off for Russia.METEORCornelius Clapworthy  and his sidekick Maurice Kelly  are two elderly forgers responsible for flooding the UK with fake banknotes. On the run from their gangster boss Slasher  and effeminate, cross dressing government official Podsnap  the pair escape to the Scottish Highlands and posing as musicians hide out at Bovington Manor, a B&B run by Lady Bovington . Since Bovington Manor is scarcely attended, Clapworthy and Kelly are free to continue their criminal activities, albeit having to constantly recite "O for the Wings of a Dove" to drown out the noise of the printing press that produces the fake banknotes. However when Lady Bovington’s chorographer nephew Rodney and his troupe of dancing girls arrive at the manor, business picks up considerably when the girls, vaguely under the leadership of Rena  decide - rather generously - to help Lady Bovington out by dressing as nurses and re-opening the Manor as a brothel with topless massages and 'the full treatment' being the order of the day. This means trouble and unwanted attention for Clapworthy and Kelly, especially when the girls’ services bring Slasher and his heavies to the Manor.{{plot}} The opening scenes show Carter "Doc" McCoy  in a Texas prison where he plays a game of chess . On being denied parole from a 10-year sentence, McCoy sends his wife Carol  to make a deal with Jack Benyon ([[Ben Johnson , a corrupt businessman, telling her to agree to the terms whatever they may be. Benyon manages to get Doc paroled on the condition that he organizes the robbery of a bank with men Benyon personally selects: Rudy  and Frank . McCoy makes meticulous plans, but his preparations meet with disinterest from Frank and menacing derision from Rudy. Doc distrusts all the participants and insists on a system of telephone calls to verify that Benyon's thugs are not at his ranch when the money is handed over. Benyon's brother  readily agrees to the demand but his sinister acquiescence leaves Doc feeling even more uneasy. A guard is killed in the robbery, after which Rudy kills Frank in a double-cross. Rudy also intends to ambush Doc, but is shot by him. However, the injuries are not serious because Rudy has worn the bulletproof vest after all. Rudy forces a rural veterinarian named Harold  and his young wife Fran  to treat his wounds, seduces the vet's wife, then takes them along as he sets out to pursue Doc and Carol. McCoy and his wife deliver the money. Benyon taunts him about Carol, who quietly draws a gun behind Doc's back. Benyon seems to be counting on Carol to kill her husband, but she shoots Benyon instead. Doc angrily gathers up the money, aware now that Carol had a relationship and arrangement with Benyon. Doc punches and slaps her, but Carol insists that she did it for him. The couple flees for the arranged hideout at Laughlin's, an El Paso hotel. McCoy reasons that Rudy  might have been working by himself, but seems oblivious to the fact that the hotel is compromised anyway - Benyon's brother having been present when the hotel was discussed - and he is heading into a trap. Benyon's brother orders Cully  to unceremoniously dump Jack's body and find out if McCoy is heading for Laughlin's. At the train station Carol is left alone and decides to put the bag with the robbery cash in a locker but the seemingly gallant stranger ([[Richard Bright  who assists her is in fact a con man who steals the bag. Doc follows the thief onto a train and forcefully takes it back. However, he fails to search the thief's pockets; money found on the injured con man is linked to the robbery and witnesses from the train identify Doc from mug shots, making him a wanted man for bank robbery and murder. Carol tells Doc he will have to trust someone but he replies that he only believes in money. While in a store Doc sees his mugshot on a TV newsflash and realizes he has been recognized by the clerk. Instead of immediately leaving the small town he robs a gun-shop of a pump action shotgun and 00 buckshot ammunition which he uses to cow two policemen - the first to respond to the clerk's phone tip - and destroy their patrol-vehicle. Carol waits at the wheel of their car and is incredulous when Doc uses vital moments to reload and continue blasting the vehicle; he is seemingly unconcerned at delaying their getaway although police re-enforcements are rushing to the scene. Appalled by his reckless arrogance and grandstanding, she knocks Doc off his feet with the car before driving a chagrined McCoy away at high speed; he has them lose the pursuing police by doubling back through the town on a bus. The police pick up their trail and they eventually resort to hiding in a trash bin, only to end up dumped at the local landfill. Filthy and frustrated, they debate whether to stay together or split up. They decide to see things through. Rudy and the veterinarian's wife have a mutual sexual attraction which leads to the two having sex in front of her husband. Humiliated, the vet hangs himself in a motel bathroom. Rudy and Fran move on, barely acknowledging the suicide. They arrive first at an El Paso hotel used by criminals as a safe house, threatening the hotel's manager. Doc and Carol are given a room on the same floor and ask for food to be delivered, but the manager says he is working alone and can't leave the desk. Doc eventually realizes that the manager has sent away all of his family. He urges Carol to get dressed fast so they can get away. Fran and an armed Rudy come to their door. Doc, peering from another doorway, is surprised to see Rudy alive. Doc sneaks up from behind, and knocks Rudy out; intending to finish him off Doc levels a pistol at Rudy's head but can't bring himself to shoot and merely takes his gun. McCoy's assumption that Rudy does not have another gun proves to be false. Benyon's brother and the thugs confront the McCoys as they are descending the stairs into the hotel lobby. Doc reacts first and opens fire. The McCoys then fight a running gun battle up the stairwell and back through the hotel with Doc's shotgun proving more than a match for the heavily armed toughs. Rudy recovers consciousness and follows Doc, who finally kills him. Exiting the hotel McCoy gets the drop on the last of Benyon's toughs but, seemingly sickened by killing, McCoy allows him to live. With the police en route, the couple hijack a pickup truck and force its likable cowboy driver , to take them to Mexico. After crossing the border, Doc and Carol pay the cowboy $30,000 for his truck and silence. Overjoyed, the cowboy walks back toward El Paso while the couple drives on into Mexico.Bernard Frank Dukore, Sam Peckinpah's feature filmsThe film's famous beginning has General George S. Patton  giving a speech to an unseen audience of American troops , with a huge American flag in the background. The scene then shifts to North Africa at the start of 1943, where Patton takes charge of the demoralized American II Corps in North Africa after the humiliating defeat at the Battle of the Kasserine Pass. After instilling discipline in his soldiers, he leads them to victory at the Battle of El Guettar, though he is bitterly disappointed to learn afterward that Erwin Rommel , whom he respects greatly as a general, was not his opponent. Patton's aide, Captain Jensen, is killed in the battle and replaced by Lieutenant Colonel Codman who assures Patton that, though Rommel was absent, that if Patton defeated Rommel's plan, then he defeated Rommel. Patton is shown to believe in reincarnation, while remaining a devout Christian. At one point during the North Africa campaign, he takes his staff on an unexpected detour to the site of the ancient Battle of Zama. There he reminisces about the battle, insisting to his second in command, General Omar Bradley  that he was there. After North Africa is secured, Patton is involved in the Allied invasion of Sicily. His proposal to land his Seventh Army in the northwest of the island is rejected in favor of the more cautious plan of British General Bernard Law Montgomery, in which the British and American armies are to land side-by-side in the southeast. Frustrated at the slow progress of the campaign, Patton defies orders, racing northwest to capture the city of Palermo and then narrowly beats Montgomery in a race to capture the port of Messina in the northeast. However, Patton's aggression is regarded with increasing disquiet by his subordinates Bradley and Truscott, and he is eventually relieved of command for slapping and attempting to shoot a shell-shocked soldier, whom he accuses of cowardice, in an Army hospital. For this incident and for his tendency to speak his mind to the press, he is sidelined during the long-anticipated D-Day landings, being placed in command of the fictional First United States Army Group in southeast England as a decoy. German General Alfred Jodl  is convinced that Patton will lead the invasion of Europe. Fearing he will miss out on his destiny, he begs his former subordinate, General Omar Bradley, for a command before the war ends. He is given the Third Army and distinguishes himself by rapidly sweeping across France until his tanks are halted by lack of fuel. He later relieves the vital town of Bastogne during the Battle of the Bulge. He then smashes through the Siegfried Line and drives into Germany itself. Patton has previously remarked to a British crowd that the United States and Great Britain would dominate the post-war world, which is viewed as a slight to the Russians. After the Germans capitulate, he insults a Russian officer at a celebration; fortunately, the Russian insults Patton right back, defusing the situation. Patton then makes an offhand remark comparing the Nazi Party to the political parties in the U.S. In the end, Patton's outspokenness loses him his command once again, though he is kept on to see to the rebuilding of Germany. The film ends with Patton walking his dog, a bull terrier named Willie, and Scott relating in a voice over that a returning hero of ancient Rome was honored with a victory parade in which "a slave stood behind the conqueror holding a golden crown and whispering in his ear a warning: that all glory is fleeting."Wealthy big-game hunter Maston Thrust  has a multi-million dollar company, "Thrust INC.", which successfully drills for oil under the polar caps with a manned laser drill, called the "Polar Borer". When only one man returns from a Bore Expedition, Thurst calls a press conference. It appears that the borer was going through a routine check in the icecaps when it suddenly surfaced in a valley which was super-heated by a volcano. The crew, all except for geologist Chuck Wade , get out of the Polar Borer and explore the strange area. Once ashore, they end up being eaten by a giant prehistoric Tyrannosaurus Rex. Chuck is able to make it back to tell their tale and Thrust decides to go there himself to study the creature. Along with Thrust and Chuck, there will be three others: Bunta , a Maasai tracker; Dr. Kawamoto ([[Tetsu Nakamura ; and Frankie Banks  a Pulitzer Prize winning photographer selected by the Press Pool. Maston, being his sexist self, goes on about how he's never taken a woman on his journeys and that he's not going to change now. But with some clever persuasion at a dinner for the crew, Frankie manages to convince Thrust to allow her on the expedition. Upon arriving at the isolated valley, they notice flying Pteranodons. Once they raft to shore, the group is almost stampeded by a "ceratopsian" . After setting up camp, Maston, Chuck, Bunta, and Frankie go out looking for the dinosaur while Dr. Kawamoto remains back at the camp. The party locates the Tyrannosaurus, and after they're chased, Thrust tries to shoot it, but his gun jams. Bunta spears it and is able to turn it away. Afterward, the Tyrannosaurus is fishing in a stream, and comes across the camp. It destroys the camp and kills Dr. Kawamoto by crushing him under its  enormous foot. Then it attacks the Polar Borer and throws it ashore to a canyon containing a bone field. While it continues its attack on the Polar Borer, a Triceratops unearths in the canyon and the two clash. After a fierce battle, the Tyrannosaurus is able to kill the Triceratops. The group returns to their destroyed camp and notice Dr. Kawamoto is gone, as well as the Borer. They mistakenly assume the borer was sunk. Enraged, Thrust vows to kill the dinosaur. After a few months, the group is now living in a cave. Thrust creates a crossbow out of Dr. Kawamoto's items and uses tent pegs for arrows. They have a number of encounters with some cavemen in the area, but are able to turn them away with the crossbow. They also befriend a cavewoman  who has held onto Frankie's purse  and Thrust's scope from his broken rifle. While Hazel  helps Frankie wash her hair, the T. rex returns. Frankie is able to make it to a cave, with the Tyrannosaurus trying to get in. Thrust, Bunta, and Wade are able to turn the animal with a large boulder they rope and attach to the dinosaur's tail. Thrust decides to kill the dinosaur once and for all with a catapult. Once built, they wait for the dinosaur. Out hunting, Chuck finds the Borer and says it's still operable. However, Thrust doesn't want to leave until they kill the Tyrannosaurus. Nevertheless, Chuck and Frankie leave camp to get the Borer fixed and leave, while Thrust and Bunta remain. Once it is launched back in the water, Frankie goes back to convince the others to leave with them one last time. While tracking the dinosaur, Bunta is eaten. Frankie and Thrust use the catapault on it, but the boulder hit the dinosaur square on the head, but only knocks it over temporarily, not killing it. It then rampages and destroys their catapult. Finally Chuck arrives and says they have to leave now or they'll be stuck there forever. Frankie pleads with Thrust to go with them and to leave the dinosaur, as it's the "last one." Thrust replies "So am I..." and so they leave without him. Now it's just Thrust  in this primeval world with "The Last Dinosaur."A heavenly paradise becomes a hellish nightmare when a toxic spill turns harmless ants into gigantic rampaging monster insects. The opening narration briefly introduces the viewer to the ant and it's behavior. It takes note how ants use pheromones to communicate, and how they cause an obligatory response that must be obeyed. "But human don't have to worry about that...." As the opening credits roll, barrels of radioactive waste are being dumped off a boat into the ocean. Eventually one of the barrels washes up on the shore and begins to leak a silvery goo attractive to local ants. Meanwhile, shady land developer Marilyn Fryser  takes a bunch of new clients to view some 'beach-front property' on a nearby island. In reality the land is worthless, but the trip is cut short by the group stumbling upon the lair of gigantic ants. The ants destroy their boat and chases the others through the woods. Fleeing for their lives through the wilderness and losing many of their party along the way; the remaining survivors eventually discover the local island town. But their safety is short lived when they realize that not only are the giant ants feeding on the local sugar factory, but at the behest of the humans. The Queen ant, using pheromones has the entire town completely under control, and the giant ants are determined to exterminate humankind and build an evil empire. However, the survivors manage to escape and burn the sugar factory, killing the giant ants and leave the island by a speedboat.Because of his drunkenness and questionable use of firearms, aging U.S. Marshal Rooster Cogburn has been stripped of his badge. But he's given a chance to redeem himself after a village in Indian Territory is overrun by a gang of violent, ruthless criminals, who've killed an elderly preacher, Rev. George Goodnight. His spinster daughter, Eula Goodnight, wants to track the criminals down and makes Rooster an unwilling partner. But Rooster must use care, because the criminals, led by Hawk and Breed, have stolen a shipment of nitroglycerine.The film tells the story of Jonathan E , the veteran star of the Houston team. By virtue of his stellar performance over the years, Jonathan has become the most recognizable Rollerballer in history; civilians all over the world recognize him on sight. This recognition is problematic for the hegemonic corporations. After another impressive performance in Houston's season-ending victory over the Madrid team, Energy Corporation chairman Mr. Bartholomew  congratulates the team and announces that the corporation, running out of ways to properly reward their champion, will feature Jonathan in a "multivision" special devoted to his career. Mr. Bartholomew later reveals to Jonathan that the corporate executives want him to retire, and offers Jonathan a lavish retirement package including an incentive package featuring "privileges," the currency of the society, asking him to announce his retirement on his televised special. Mr. Bartholomew emphasizes the benefits of corporate-run society and the importance of respecting executive decisions, but does not reveal why the directorate wants Jonathan to retire. It is revealed that Jonathan was married to a woman, Ella , and that the marriage ended when she was promised to an executive. The film revolves around the struggle of Jonathan to understand why he faces so much pressure to retire, which he ponders at his Texas ranch with his personal coach and his corporation-provided concubine. Jonathan gives advice to a group of up-and-coming Rollerball players, emphasizing the importance of skill and technique. He later tries to access some books from a library, but finds that the books have been classified, transcribed, and stored in one of the major corporate computer banks. Jonathan comforts himself at his ranch by watching video of his ex-wife, and finds that the corporation has sent him another concubine, Daphne. For Jonathan, Rollerball soon degrades into senseless violence as the rules of upcoming games are made more dangerous in order to force Jonathan out one way or another. It is announced that the semi-final game versus the Tokyo team will be played with no penalties and limited player substitutions, yet Jonathan refuses to yield and intends to play in the game. Summoned to the filming of his televised special, he struggles with Daphne and the host. An instructor insists on teaching the Houston team how to counter the Tokyo team's unorthodox martial arts skills, but the team, brimming with confidence, drowns him out with chants of "Houston!" The brutality of the match claims the lives of several players, including Houston's lead biker, Blue, and leaves Jonathan's best friend and teammate Moonpie ([[John Beck  brain-dead. Jonathan defies a doctor in the Tokyo hospital, and insists on keeping Moonpie on life support and transporting him elsewhere to receive medical care. The corporations hold an emergency meeting to discuss Jonathan's obstinate refusal to retire, and decide that the championship game against the New York team will be played without penalties, player substitutions, or a time-limit, in the hope that Jonathan, if he decides to participate, will be killed during the course of the game. The executives' meeting reveals why they are demanding Jonathan's retirement: Rollerball was conceived not merely to slake bloodlust, but to demonstrate the futility of individualism. Jonathan's singular talent and longevity in the sport defeats the intended purpose of Rollerball. After much personal introspection, and further delving into the true nature of the corporations that run the world, Jonathan decides he is going to play in the game despite the obvious dangers. Naturally, the final game quickly loses all semblance of order as players are incapacitated or killed in short order. The crowd, raucous and energetic at the game's beginning, gradually become more and more subdued as the carnage builds and degrades to a gladiatorial "last man standing" event. Towards the end, Jonathan is the last mobile member of the Houston team. Two players remain from New York. After a brief and violent struggle, Jonathan dispatches one of the players, then gets possession of the ball, grabs the last, helpless New York player by the collar and readies to fatally smite him as the crowd, both coaches and Mr. Bartholomew watch in complete silence. With a moment's pause, Jonathan releases his opponent, slowly gets to his feet, and painfully makes his way to the goal, scoring the only point of the game, leaving the final score Houston 1, New York 0. Immediately following this Jonathan then starts to freely skate around the track in silent victory, and the coaches and fans of both teams start chanting "Jon-a-than!", first in a whisper and then gradually getting louder and louder as Jonathan continues to circle the track. Seeing his worst fears unfolding, Mr. Bartholomew hurries to exit the arena in blind panic, with the realization that Jonathan has essentially defeated the purpose of the game itself. As the cheering reaches a climax, the movie cuts to a sudden still of Jonathan, against the same music that opened the film, the Toccata from Bach's iconic Toccata and Fugue in D minor.Johnny Hooker, a grifter from Depression-era Joliet, Illinois, cons $11,000 in cash from an unsuspecting victim, with the aid of his partners Luther Coleman and Joe Erie. Buoyed by the windfall, Luther announces his retirement and advises Hooker to seek out an old friend, Henry Gondorff, in Chicago, to teach him “the big con.” Unfortunately, their victim was a numbers racket courier for vicious crime boss Doyle Lonnegan. Corrupt Joliet police Lieutenant William Snyder confronts Hooker, revealing Lonnegan's involvement and demanding part of Hooker’s cut. Having already spent his cut, Hooker pays Snyder in counterfeit bills. Lonnegan's men murder Luther, and Hooker flees for his life to Chicago. Gondorff, a once-great con-man now hiding out from the FBI, is initially reluctant to take on the dangerous Lonnegan. However, Gondorff relents and decides to resurrect an elaborate and supposedly obsolete scam known as "the wire", using a large number of con artists to create a phony off-track betting parlor. Aboard the opulent 20th Century Limited, Gondorff, posing as boorish Chicago bookie "Shaw", buys his way into Lonnegan's private high-stakes poker game and out-cheats Lonnegan, winning $15,000 from him and making Lonnegan furious. Hooker, posing as Shaw's disgruntled employee "Kelly", is sent to collect the winnings and instead convinces Lonnegan that he wants to take over Shaw's operation. Kelly reveals that he has a partner named Les Harmon  in the Chicago Western Union office, who will allow them to win bets on horse races by past-posting. Meanwhile, Snyder has tracked Hooker to Chicago, but his pursuit is thwarted when he is summoned by undercover FBI agents led by Agent Polk, who orders him to assist in their scheme to arrest Gondorff using Hooker. Additionally, Lonnegan has grown frustrated with his men's inability to find and kill Hooker. Unaware that “Kelly” is Hooker, he demands that "Salino," his best assassin, kill Hooker. A mysterious figure with black leather gloves is soon seen following and observing Hooker. Kelly's connection appears effective, as Harmon provides Lonnegan with the winner of one horse race and the trifecta of another race. Lonnegan agrees to finance a $500,000 bet at Shaw's parlor to break Shaw and gain revenge. Shortly thereafter, Snyder captures Hooker and brings him before FBI Agent Polk. Polk forces Hooker to betray Gondorff by threatening to incarcerate Luther Coleman's widow. The night before the sting, Hooker sleeps with Loretta, a waitress at a local restaurant. As Hooker leaves the building the next morning, he sees Loretta walking toward him. The black-gloved man appears behind Hooker and shoots Loretta dead, later revealing her to be "Loretta Salino", Lonnegan's hired killer. The black-gloved man had been hired by Gondorff to protect Hooker. Armed with Harmon’s tip to "place it on Lucky Dan", Lonnegan makes a $500,000 bet at Shaw’s parlor on Lucky Dan to win. As the race begins, Harmon arrives and expresses shock at Lonnegan's bet, explaining that when he had said "place it" he had meant, literally, that Lucky Dan would "place" . In a panic, Lonnegan rushes the teller window and demands his money back. Just then, Agent Polk, Lt. Snyder, and half a dozen FBI officers storm the parlor. Polk confronts Gondorff, then tells Hooker he is free to go. Gondorff, reacting to the betrayal, shoots Hooker in the back; Polk then shoots Gondorff and orders Snyder to get Lonnegan away from the crime scene. With Lonnegan and Snyder safely away, Hooker and Gondorff rise amid cheers and laughter. Agent Polk is actually Hickey, a con man, running a con atop Gondorff's con to divert Snyder and provide a solid "blow off" to Gondorff's con. Hooker and Gondorff depart as the other con men strip the room of its contents.It is a story that takes place in Jamaica in 1718 about a band of buccaneer pirates, led by Captain “Red” Ned Lynch, pitted against a greedy overlord, evil Lord Durant. Durant has ruthlessly imprisoned his Lord High Justice and mercilessly evicted his wife and daughter Jane Barnet who eventually attempts a rescue with Lynch’s help. The film stars Robert Shaw as Lynch, Peter Boyle as Durant, Geneviève Bujold as Barnet as well as James Earl Jones, Beau Bridges, Geoffrey Holder, Anjelica Huston and Avery Schreiber.{{Plot}} Two years after the Westworld tragedy in the Delos amusement park, the corporate owners have reopened the park following $1.5 billion in safety and other improvements. For publicity purposes, newspaper reporter Chuck Browning and TV reporter Tracy Ballard are invited to review the park. Just before the junket is announced, Browning arranges to meet with a Delos employee who promises he has dirt on the corporation. At the meeting, the tipster is shot in the back and dies with an envelope in his hands. At the resort, guests can choose from a range of themed parks: Medievalworld, Romanworld, and Futureworld . Browning and Ballard choose to visit Futureworld, which simulates a trip to an orbiting space station. Robots are available for sexual exploits as well as amusements like a boxing game, where the humans control robot boxers. They are guided through the resort by Dr. Duffy. Duffy graciously shows them the marvels of Delos, demonstrating that all the problems of Westworld have been fixed. The reporters are stunned to find that the control center, overseen by Dr. Schneider, is staffed entirely by robots. This revelation confirms Browning's suspicion that something is wrong at the resort. That night, their dinners are drugged. While they sleep, exhaustive tests are run that will enable Delos to make clone duplicates of the reporters. In addition to Browning and Ballard, a senior Russian general and a Japanese politician are also singled out for cloning. After they are returned to their rooms at 2:30 a.m., Ballard awakes in a fright, thinking all the medical tests were a nightmare. She and Browning sneak out to explore the resort's underground mechanical areas. They end up triggering a cloning machine which generates three deadly samurai. Just as they are about to be captured by the samurai, a mechanic named Harry  saves them. He takes them back to his quarters, which he shares with a faceless robot he's named "Clark" . It is stated that Clark is the body of one of the pleasure bots from the original version of Romanworld. The reporters interview Harry about Delos, but Schneider interrupts them and insists that they return to their rooms. The following day, while Ballard is testing out a dream recording device that Delos has designed, Browning slips out to see Harry. Harry takes Browning to a locked door that he has never been able to enter, although another technician - a robot - routinely enters. Realizing the key is in the robot's eyes, Harry destroys the robot and steals its face. They return with Ballard and open the door. Inside, they see the clones of themselves as well as the Russian and Japanese leaders. The clones are fully functional and are in the process of being coded through subliminal messages; they are instructed to always work for the good of Delos and to destroy their originals. Browning explains that his tipster's envelope was filled with clippings about establishment figures from around the world, realizing that Delos must be cloning the rich and powerful. The trio decides to flee the resort on the next plane. Browning and Ballard return to their apartment where Duffy is waiting for them, who explains that by cloning world leaders they can ensure that laws are not passed which are harmful to Delos' interests. By cloning the two reporters, they would ensure favorable coverage which would help people forget the Westworld tragedy and popularize the new resort. Duffy also reveals that he believes that humans will destroy the planet if left to run it themselves. In the ensuing struggle, Duffy easily overpowers Browning with an unnatural strength. Ballard manages to shoot him twice. To confirm his suspicions, Browning peels back Duffy's face to reveal that he is a robot. As Harry makes his way through the tunnels to meet up with the reporters, he runs into Browning's clone, who kills him. Ballard and Browning are then beset by their own duplicates, who separate them and chase them through the facility, all the while taunting them with details about their lives . Eventually, one of each pair is killed in the two-fold struggle, though which one is left unclear. When the surviving Browning and Ballard meet, he seizes her and kisses her. In the end, Browning and Ballard are leaving the resort with the other guests. Schneider stops them on their way out to make sure they are the clones. The reporters confirm that they will be generating positive press for Delos, but just as they reach the exit, Ballard's badly beaten doppelgänger stumbles towards him, and Schneider realizes too late that he has been fooled. On the jetway, Browning tells Ballard that his editor is running the expose on Delos and the whole world will know what they are up to, and that kissing her was his idea to figure out whether or not she was a duplicate.Philo Beddoe is a truck driver living in the San Fernando Valley. He lives in a small house, with an orangutan named Clyde, behind that of his friend Orville Boggs and his mother. Philo makes money on the side as a bare-knuckle fighter; he is often compared to a legendary fighter named Tank Murdock. One night Philo becomes smitten with Lynn Halsey-Taylor, an aspiring country music singer he meets at the Palomino Club, a local honky-tonk. His relationship with her seems to be going well until one day she and her camper disappear from the trailer park. Believing that he is falling for her, Philo decides to set off for Lynn's home in Denver, Colorado. Along the way, he has a run-in with a motorcycle gang called "The Black Widows", who incur Philo's wrath after two gang members insult him and Clyde at a traffic light. Philo chases them down and takes their bikes , and every attempt they make to get even results in disaster. Philo also incurs the wrath of a local sheriff, with whom he gets into a fight at the Palomino. Both the sheriff and the Widows learn of Philo's trip to Colorado and head off to find him. Orville and Clyde accompany Philo to Denver, and on the way, they meet a woman named Echo who becomes Orville's girlfriend. They earn money along the way by booking fights for Philo. After a fight in a slaughterhouse, the man holding the money tries to stiff Philo. Echo fires two shots from a .38, and the man hands over the money. Knowing that Philo has come to look for her, Lynn helps the Black Widows lure him into a trap. Philo sees Lynn and attempts to talk to her, but finds himself surrounded by the Widows. He manages to fight most of them until Orville intervenes. Using a garbage truck with a dumpster hoist, he dumps all the motorcycles into the back of the truck. The Widows charge the garbage truck, but Orville gets away. Philo, Echo, and Orville then escape. Philo finally finds Lynn and she reveals her true nature to him. Hurt by her callousness, Philo says that he is the only one dumb enough to want to take her further than her bed. Lynn erupts in a fit of rage, striking him repeatedly until she collapses in tears. Orville learns that Tank Murdock, based in the area, is ready to retire after one more fight. Orville makes the arrangements, and Philo faces his elderly nemesis. During the fight, the crowd, initially pro-Murdock, begins to insult him, with some murmurs that Philo is going to be the next Murdock. Philo lets his guard down, intentionally giving Murdock a clear shot, knocking Philo down for the count. Murdock, having regained the crowd's esteem, is allowed to retire undefeated. Clyde, Orville and Echo head home the next day.The story follows a detective who takes on a murder case, complicated by a diverse group of suspects and a lot of sexual situations.{{Plot}} After a break-in at the headquarters of a company, the police are called in. One of the executives has been murdered, and the watchman has been bludgeoned. It is not a simple robbery, the man was killed by shots from two different guns, there are several unexplained facts and nothing was stolen. Virgil Tibbs  is contacted by the organization which committed the break-in, stealing 4 million dollars worth of heroin. They are urban revolutionaries who explain that the company is a front for drug-dealing. They had hoped the break-in would lead the police to investigate the company itself and want to use the heroin to get to the leaders of the organization. Tibbs arrests the security guard to question him, but he is murdered while in the police car. Tibbs agrees to help the group, if they co-operate with him. One member of the group is hunted down and beaten by the drug-pushers, another is murdered. Tibbs himself comes under suspicion from his superiors when the narcotics division tie him to these stolen drugs, he is removed from the case, and suspended. He persuades one of his colleagues to help him with information on the bogus company behind the drug traffic. One of the revolutionaries, Juan, contacts the drug dealers and offers them the drugs back for $500,000. He sets it up smartly, proposing to exchange the first half of the drugs for half the money, with an exchange with identical suitcases in a very busy square. Once the exchange takes place one of the other revolutionaries ´robs´ the suitcase with the money. The drug dealer tries to get away, gets tackled by Juan, the drug dealer shoots a policeman but gets arrested. Juan notes the numberplate of the executives of the criminal organization that had carelessly come to supervise the deal. The person running off with the suitcase with the money is pursued by some of the gang through an underground building site for the subway system. Tibbs was also there, there is an amusing chase. Tibbs after that goes to the house of the wife of the security guard. When Tibbs' colleague arrives, Tibbs confronts the wife as the runner of the gang, shows heroin in a package she has just brought home and tells her she can choose between prison or getting killed by the mob like her husband. She gives in and identifies the two chiefs of the organization. The chiefs are arrested by a large group of police officers, including Tibbs. When they are taken to the police car, a mob hit man takes them out, before they can talk. Tibbs now sees that he won a battle, but lost the war.The plot of Marine Express can be described in two parts. The first part focuses on the people boarding the train and the problems they encounter on it. The second part takes place after the train has stopped at its half-way point, an island that used to be home to an ancient civilization millennia ago and has its fair share of secrets.  The story takes place in the year 2002. Construction has finished on an amazing piece of engineering and technology: the Marine Express. Traveling on a rail through large glass tunnels, the train is capable of taking passengers from Los Angeles, California to Japan. To celebrate its completion, a test-run has been arranged with many of the train's founders and family on board. The train was designed by Doctor Narzenkopf, whose oldest, and adopted, son, Rock, is the train's pilot. Also with Doctor Narzonkopf is his youngest son, Adam. Funding the train's construction is Director Credit, who is on the train with his daughter Milly. In addition to the train's staff, others have boarded the train without permission. One of them is Shunsaku Ban, a detective on the trail of a criminal who he suspects is on board the train. Originally, he had been hired by the Chief Engineer of the Marine Express to investigate a possibility that someone was going to try and use the train for illicit means. Upon arriving at the engineer's home, Shunsaku was shocked to find his client murdered. Furthermore, the murderer hadn't left the premises yet, and when Shunsaku caught a glimpse of the culprit's face, he was shot. After recovering and seeing TV coverage of the train's test-run, Shunsaku now has reason to believe the man he's after is on the train. In addition to Shunsaku, others who had boarded the train without position include Black Jack, a surgeon who treated Shunsaku Ban and has followed him onto the train in order to receive payment for his medical bill, and also Skunk Kusai, a criminal who intends to use the train as a means to smuggle illegal weapons and is the one responsible for murdering Shunsaku's client and shooting Shunsaku. On the train, many disastrous situations arise forcing the passengers to work together to overcome their obstacles. When Shunsaku Ban confronts Skunk, Skunk and his cohorts fight back, forcing Shunsaku and a few other passengers to band together to keep the criminals from taking over the train. In the firefight, Doctor Narzenkopf is critically wounded, forcing Black Jack to do immediate brain surgery. However, Doctor Narzenkopf's son, Adam, is actually a robot designed to override the train's systems and force it to crash. The Doctor created Adam to do this because he feared what the Marine Express would do to the ocean ecology, and couldn't stand to see its results. Adam, however, has begun questioning his own existence, knowing that he is a robot, and designed for the sole reason of destroying the train. While in this mental quandary, he befriends the only other child on the train, Milly, daughter of the train's financial backer: Director Credit. Despite their budding friendship, Adam goes to the train's cockpit and takes over the computer systems, integrating them with his own. Overriding the system, Adam intends to force the train to crash, forcing the train to be shut down and preserving the ocean's ecosystems. In a twist of fate, Adam finds that he is not the only robot on board. Milly is actually a robot as well. Through her kind words and persuasion, she convinces Adam to relinquish control of the train, allowing it and its passengers to reach their destination safely, an island designated as a half-way point and rest stop for the passengers of the train.  Arriving at the island, the surviving passengers disembark to get some rest. Shortly after getting off the train, however, does Rock see a glimpse of a beautiful woman before him. Suddenly, the Marine Express and all of its passengers are transported 30,000 years in the past. Confused as to where they are, they are approached by a vampire named Dondora. Taking them to his master, they are greeted by the wicked fiend that had displaced the Marine Express and its passengers: Sharaku. A fiendish sorcerer and master of technology, Sharaku intends to use the Marine Express and all technology on it for his own sinister purposes. As for the passengers, he intends them to become excellent slaves. Before he can execute his fiendish scheme, the passengers are saved by a mysterious white lion that can somehow fly. Escaping from Sharaku, they follow the lion to where a beautiful woman is being held captive. Rock immediately recognizes her as the beautiful woman from his vision, and she explains the situation to the Marine Express passengers. Before Sharaku, she was Empress Sapphire of the Mu Empire. The Mu Empire was a peaceful civilization until Sharaku appeared. He overthrew her, and seized control of the Empire for himself. Not satisfied with just the Mu Empire, Sharaku hopes to expand his reign of power to beyond the Mu civilization. With the Marine Express, he hopes to have total domination of time and space. Rock swears to Sapphire that he will help her reclaim her kingdom and together with the other passengers, they devise a way to stop the sinister Sharaku. Once defeated, the passengers had to decide what to do next. They could either stay behind to try and help rebuild the Mu Empire, or take the Marine Express back to the present. Some that stayed behind included Rock who was going to wed Sapphire and Black Jack who wanted to stay and treat the injured. In the end, those that stayed behind devoted themselves to trying to help an old civilization rebuild after near destruction, while those that returned to the present were determined not to let their own civilization come close to the near destruction of the Mu Empire.The deceased lycanthrope Waldemar Daninsky is revived to life when two doctors remove the silver bullets from his heart while performing an autopsy on him. Waldemar transforms into a werewolf, kills the doctors and escapes from the morgue. Some time later, two students, Elvira and her friend Genevieve, go searching for the tomb of medieval murderess  Countess Wandessa. They find a possible site in the castle of Count Waldemar Daninsky, who invites them to stay for as long as they like. When he shows them the tomb of the countess, Elvira accidentally revives her. Daninsky turns into the Wolf Man, is forced to battle and destroy the vampire queen at the end of the film, and is himself destroyed by a woman who loves him enough to end his torment. Daninsky's lycanthropy is not given a specific origin in this film; the events of the film are assumed to have followed from the ending of Fury of the Wolf Man , which involved a yeti's bite as the cause of Daninsky's curse.Miles Monroe , a jazz musician and owner of the 'Happy Carrot' Health-Food store in 1973, is made subject to Cryopreservation without his consent, and not revived for 200 years. The scientists who revive him are members of a rebellion: 22nd-century America seems to be a police state ruled by a dictator, about to implement a secret plan known as the "Aires Project". The rebels hope to use Miles as a spy to infiltrate the Aires Project, because he is the only member of this society without a known biometric identity. The authorities discover the scientists' project, and arrest them; but Miles escapes by disguising himself as a robot, and goes to work as a butler in the house of socialite Luna Schlosser . When Luna decides to have his head replaced with something more "aesthetically pleasing," Miles reveals his true identity to her; whereupon Luna threatens to give Miles to the authorities. In response, he kidnaps her and goes on the run, searching for the Aires Project. Miles and Luna fall in love; but Miles is captured and brainwashed, by which he becomes a complacent member of futuristic society, while Luna joins the rebellion. The rebels kidnap Miles and force reverse-brainwashing, whereupon he remembers his past and joins their efforts. Miles becomes jealous when he catches Luna kissing the rebel leader, Erno Windt ([[John Beck , and she tells him that she believes in free love. Miles and Luna successfully infiltrate the Aires Project, wherein they learn that the national Leader was killed by a rebel bomb ten months previously, and all that survives is his nose. The nose has been kept alive, and the members of the Aires Project, mistaking Miles and Luna for doctors, ask them to clone the leader from this single remaining part; but Miles steals the nose and "assassinates" it by dropping it in the path of a steamroller. After escaping, Miles and Luna debate their future together. He tells her that Erno will inevitably become as corrupt as the Leader. Miles and Luna confess their love for one another, but she claims that science has proven men and women cannot have meaningful relationships due to chemical incompatibilities. Miles dismisses this, saying that he does not believe in science, and Luna points out that he does not believe in God or political systems either. Luna asks Miles if there is anything he does believe in, and he responds with the famous line, "Sex and death. Two things that come once in a lifetime. But at least after death you're not nauseous."{{cite web}} The two embrace.A busload of passengers, including off-duty police detective Dave Evans, is gunned down and killed. Evans, on his own time, has been following a man named Gus Niles in search of information linking businessman Henry Camarero to the murder of his wife, Teresa, two years earlier. Evans was the partner of Detective Sergeant Jake Martin, a veteran but cynical member of the Homicide Detail working the bus massacre investigation. Jake originally investigated the Teresa Camarero case and been obsessed with his failure to "make" Camarero for the murder. Jake returns to it after many dead-end leads in the bus investigation. Niles was killed on the bus as well, and it was Niles who provided the alibi that enabled Camarero to cover up his wife's murder. The sullen Jake and enthusiastic but impulsive Inspector Leo Larsen are paired to interview suspects. Jake shuts out Larsen from his deductions, while Larsen, despite a loose-on-the-rules and brutal side, tries to understand and gain the confidence of his new partner. Defying the orders of their police superior Lt. Steiner, they seek, find and then smoke out Camarero, leading to a chase through the streets of San Francisco and a confrontation aboard another bus.Eddie Ryan , a tough, no-nonsense, abrasive and racist Irish cop, has to turn in his badge after scuffling with a Puerto Rican suspect who then falls to his death from a rooftop, but that doesn't stop him from heading out on a one-man crusade to find out who killed his partner of three years, Gigi Caputo , all the while neglecting his new live-in girlfriend, Maureen . Ryan's search leads him to Puerto Rican drug kingpin Sweet Willie , and a shipment of guns for Puerto Rican independenistas.Knight Yin comes to visit his fiancee Tik but finds her house has been completely deserted. Suspecting it was the work of the henchmen of Ong, a bandit chief in the area of the Green Dragon Association he kills his henchman One-legged Wolf in the ensuing fight although Ma escapes. Yin contacts a friend from the town, Suen and arranges a valuable consignment to lure Ong's men in as bait and to eventually lead him to the kidnapped Tik. During the collection by Ong's henchmen, Yin is able to recover his fiance but not without cost. Back at his lair, Ong discovers that the "valuable" consignment is a fake and he has been double-crossed, particularly as his hostage has escaped during the process. Seriously angry, he dispatches his henchmen leading to a final violent showdown with Yin and his friends.The film opens at Magic Mountain, where Melissa  and her boyfriend Sam  are enjoying a day at the amusement park. Sam, a park employee, disappears early in the film while investigating the laboratory of Abner Devereaux, who is the park's head engineer and the creator of a series of lifelike cybernetic creatures on display throughout the park. It is subsequently revealed that Sam has been transformed by Devereaux into a mindless cyborg through the use of a tiny mind-control device attached to Sam's neck. Devereaux's increasingly erratic behavior is a cause of concern for Calvin Richards , the owner of the amusement park. Faced with a budget crunch, Richards decides to channel money away from Devereaux's projects in order to pay for a Kiss concert. Richards explains to Devereaux that the concert will generate much-needed revenue, but Devereaux is livid. Later, three punks  sabotage one of the rides, placing a group of riders in danger. Richards blames Devereaux for the incident and fires him. Devereaux swears revenge upon Richards, the park, and Kiss, all of whom he blames for his misfortune. When Kiss arrives for their show, Devereaux first attempts to discredit them by unleashing a robotic Gene Simmons, which proceeds to damage buildings in the park and to injure a security guard. The next day, Kiss is questioned by Richards and some security guards, but no action is taken. His first plan having failed, Devereaux attempts to sabotage the scheduled Kiss concert. He manages to neutralize Kiss's abilities and imprison them in his underground laboratory. Finally, he sends the fake Kiss onstage, where they perform a version of "Hotter than Hell"  with altered lyrics meant to incite the crowd to riot. The real Kiss manage to escape from Devereaux and fly to the stage for a final battle with their robotic doppelgängers. After the real Kiss dispatches the fake version, the concert continues and the crisis is averted. After the show, Kiss, Melissa, and Richards converge on Devereaux's lab and attempt to convince Devereaux to release Sam from his control. But when his chair is spun around, Devereaux has newly-white hair and a frozen expression on his face. It is unknown if Devereaux is now dead, or has slipped into a state of catatonia. The group is despondent, but Stanley stumbles upon the mind control device on Sam's neck and removes it. Sam returns to normal, with no memory of what had happened. Richards laments about Devereaux by saying, "He created KISS to destroy KISS...and he lost." The movie ends with KISS performing "God of Thunder" live onstage.The story explores the adventures and relationships of Leroy "Preach" Jackson  and Richard "Cochise" Morris , two black high school students at Edwin G. Cooley High School, in Chicago, during the 1960s whose carefree lives take a turn for the worse through several twists of fate, including violent carjacking friends, drugs, failing grades, and girls. Preach and Cochise, two best friends, decide to cut class and go to the zoo, despite the fact that Preach has missed an entire week of school, much to the chagrin of his history teacher, Mr. Mason . Nevertheless, they gather their other friends, Pooter and Tyrone, and play hookey. On their way back, Pooter is hit with gorilla feces, Cochise teaches some young new "turkeys" how to shoot a basketball, and they meet their friend Dorothy at a diner called Martha's, where she invites them to a quarter party, while Preach slips inside to gamble with his other friends, Stone and Robert. Cochise, knowing that Martha will throw him out for gambling, warns him, just as cute girl Brenda  tries to get past them to get to the washroom. After she leaves to get Martha, Leroy makes a dollar bet with Richard that he will sleep with Brenda before they break up. Martha then comes with a large butcher knife, threatening Jackson and throwing him out of her shop. At Dorothy's quarter party, Tyrone flirts with Dorothy to grant the guys access to the quarter party without paying her. At the party, Pooter tries to flirt with some other girls, but they all flock to Richard instead, leaving him alone. Leroy finds and tries to serenade Brenda with poetry. Outside, Cochise flirts with and kisses a girl during a slow dance in the dark. However, hotheaded Damon, a classmate, sees him kissing the girl, who turns out to be Loretta Brown, Damon's girlfriend. Later, Preach, Pooter, Tyrone, and Morris are singing and drinking wine on a street corner. Stone and Robert pull up in a Cadillac, and Preach and Cochise go along with them for a ride as they are eager to smoke with them. Preach claims to have excellent driving experience, and the others allow him to take the wheel. At an intersection, the group gets scared next to a police car, and they pull away, causing the squad car to give chase. The chase ends when they evade the police in a mostly empty warehouse, and then gently crash into the back of another vehicle. Everyone runs away from the car. At school the next day, before their important history test, Preach and Cochise are taken out of Mr. Mason's class on a warrant for their arrest relating to grand theft, auto. Mr. Mason talks to the police, convincing them to go easier on his students, while Stone and Robert who have worse criminal records are not spared. When they eventually get out of jail, they seek vengeance on Preach and Cochise, perceiving them to be snitches.A mailman ([[Henry Jones  speaks about three stories of lives that were completely changed by letters not having come through the mail on time. The first includes Vincent , a former member of the army in the Vietnam war, whose wife Angie  works at a bar for a strict boss, Al . Vincent reveals to Angie that he has recently been fired and can not give her a big marriage, nor can he invest in a garage with his friend Jesse. Even though Angie tells him that she loves him nonetheless, Vincent robs Al in a desperate rage. He quickly becomes imprisoned, and Angie attempts to support him, but Vincent - ashamed - orders her not to visit him again. In prison, he has difficulty forgetting about his fiance. In a letter, Angie informs Vincent that she still stands by his side, and that she was fired from the job, and has since moved away to live near her new job. In the second story, set in a suburb 350 miles from Los Angeles, a wealthy old couple Joshua ([[Barry Sullivan  and Monica Brandon  do not seem invested in each other's lives anymore. The marriage suffered under the sudden death of their 10-year-old son years earlier. When one night, her husband does not show up in a restaurant in Los Angeles for dinner, Monica meets Bob Francis . They share a meal and have a great time, and end up in bed with each other. Monica and Bob promise each other to meet once a month in the same hotel, and send a letter to the place if one can not attend. The next month, Bob finds out that his business wild send him to New York, not Los Angeles, meaning that they can not meet up. He sends a letter to the hotel, explaining Monica the situation, but the letter is sent to late, leaving Monica feeling stood up in the hotel. The final story involves middle class businessman Jack , who was once a spontaneous guy, but is now criticized by colleague Sam  for having become a scrooge. He plans on marrying a rich girl, and checks into an expensive hotel in Palm Beach to achieve his goal. Meanwhile, somewhere else secretary Donna , is invited to accompany her boss Mr. Thompson  to Palm Beach. She is not able to come and instead sends her colleague Maggie . Work acquires Thompson to quickly leave, but he allows Maggie to take full usage of his hotel, allowing her to have a small vacation as soon as she is done filing papers. In her spare time, she meets Jack and enjoys his attention so much, that she pretends to come from money in order to not lose his interest. They go out on several dates over the next two days, and Jack proposes to her at the end of their vacation. She promises to give him an answer the next morning, but he turns out to be gone by then, leaving her to think that he has found out that she is not wealthy. Jack, meanwhile, admits to Sam that he left because he feels that he is not good enough for her. In a letter, he reveals about his fraud, but assures her that he loves her. The mailman explains that all three letters arrived a year late due to an accident involving the plane that carried the letters. Vincent, who has since been released from prison, is desperately seeking for Angie, when he receives her belated letter, through which he finds out her new address. A criminal named Wilson  has offered him money to serve as a driver in a heist, but Vincent wants to visit Angie and tries to reject him. Wilson, however, threatens to kill him if he does not help out. During the heist, Vincent calls Angie to tell her he loves her. Wilson sees him in a telephone booth and thinks that he is warning the police, and thus shoots and kills him. Meanwhile, Monica is considering to adopt a child with Joshua, when she suddenly receives Bob's letter. She immediately meets up with him, but realizes that the passion is gone. She gladly returns to Joshua, and tells him how much she loves him. Finally, Maggie receives Jack's letter and coincidentally runs into him at work the same day. Jack fears that she hates him because of the letter, but Maggie assures him that she loves him even more.Steve Jackson , a blue-collar worker at a steel mill, has just begun a two-weeks-long vacation. He is convinced by his friend Wardell Franklin  to go to a party that Saturday night at Madam Zenobia's, an uptown nightclub. While the two are at the party, the club is robbed. The masked bandits force the patrons to strip to their underwear, then steal their money and jewellery, including Steve's wallet. The following day, Steve is at home and reading his newspaper when he learns he has won the lottery. However, he realizes that the lottery ticket was in the wallet that was stolen from him, and Steve and Wardell spend the remainder of the film tracking down his wallet by consulting with crooked politicians, fake detectives, con-artists, and underworld crime bosses.Critics and film historians have often noted how the film is divided into three equal thirds or acts.Roger Ebert: "Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter is a three-hour movie in three major movements." Mike enters himself in a game of Russian roulette against Nick, hoping to jar Nick's memory and persuade him to come home, but Nick's mind is gone. In the last moment, after Mike's attempts to remind him of their trips hunting together, he finally breaks through, and Nick recognizes Mike and smiles. Nick then tells Mike, "one shot", raises the gun to his temple, and pulls the trigger. The bullet is in the gun's top chamber, and Nick kills himself. Horrified, Michael tries to revive him, but to no avail. Epilogue - Back home in 1975, there is a funeral for Nick, whom Michael brings home, good to his promise. The film ends with the whole cast at their friend's bar, singing "God Bless America" and toasting in Nick's honor.In the year 2274, the remnants of human civilization live in a sealed domed city, a utopia run by a computer that takes care of all aspects of their life, including reproduction. The citizens live a mostly hedonistic lifestyle but have been told that in order to maintain the city, every resident must undergo the ritual of "Carrousel" at the age of 30, where they are vaporized with the chance of being "Renewed." To track this, the humans are implanted at birth with a Lifeclock crystal in the palm of their hand that changes colors as they approach their "Last Day." Most residents accept this loose promise of rebirth, but some sense that it is simply execution for the sake of population control, and go into hiding to avoid Carrousel. These fugitives are known as Runners, and the city's computer assigns Sandmen , who pursue and terminate them.  Logan 5  is a Sandman, along with his friend Francis 7 . After chasing and killing one Runner, Logan finds an ankh among his possessions. Later, he meets Jessica 6 , a citizen who also wears an ankh pendant. Logan takes the Runner's possessions to the computer, where he is told the ankh is a symbol of a group of people helping the Runners to find "Sanctuary". The computer instructs Logan to find Sanctuary and destroy it, and accelerates the color change of his Lifeclock to flash red four years before it is due to do so. In order to escape Carrousel himself, Logan is now forced to become a Runner. Logan regroups with Jessica and explains his situation. Together, they meet with the underground group that leads them to the periphery of the city. Logan finds the ankh symbol is able to open a door, allowing them to leave the city into a frozen cave, but the pair are tailed closely by Francis. In the cave, they meet Box , a robot designed to capture food for the city from the outside. However, Box has also captured Runners that have made it this far and keeps them frozen. Before he can freeze them too, Logan and Jessica escape the robot, causing the cave to collapse and destroy Box. Once outside, Logan and Jessica notice that their Lifeclocks are now clear and no longer operational. Venturing further, they discover that vegetation has overrun much of the remains of human civilization, and explore the nearby area, once the National Mall in Washington D.C. Within the ruins of the United States Senate chamber, they discover an elderly man , a surprise to them both, neither having ever seen a person this old before. The old man explains what he knows has happened to humanity outside of the city; Logan and Jessica realize Sanctuary is a myth. However, Francis has followed them from the City and he and Logan fight. Logan gains the upper hand, and fatally wounds Francis. As Francis dies, he observes that Logan's Lifeclock is now clear, and believes Logan has Renewed. Logan and Jessica convince the old man to return to the domed city with them. Leaving the man outside, the two enter and try to convince the residents Carrousel is a lie and no longer necessary. The two are captured by other Sandmen and taken to the computer. The computer interrogates Logan and asks if he completed his mission, but Logan insists "there is no Sanctuary." This answer is not accepted by the computer, even after scanning Logan's mind. It eventually sends the computer into overload, causing many of the city's systems to fail and releasing the seals to the outside. Logan and Jessica regroup with the old man as the citizens flee the ruined city, curious as to both the new surroundings and the old man.An ancient meteorite crashes onto the Earth's surface. Six construction workers later begin work building an airstrip at the site, on an island off the coast of Africa. Foreman Kelly  and bulldozer driver Mack  uncover the meteorite, which emits a strange sound. When the bulldozer  is used to try to shift the meteorite, it emits a blue light and seems to possess the bulldozer. Mack, standing nearby as this occurs, falls ill and then dies. Chub , the team's mechanic, can not find anything wrong with the non-functioning bulldozer, but can hear the odd sound behind the scoop. Kelly orders that the bulldozer not be used. Beltran  ignores the prohibition and starts the bulldozer, bringing it to malevolent life. It destroys the camp's only two-way radio and begins a rampage, killing the workers one by one. It seems to run indefinitely in spite of a limited fuel capacity. The machine has some rudimentary intelligence and guile, and hunts down the men. The crew is soon reduced to just Kelly and Dennis . Running out of options they jokingly convict the bulldozer of murder and devise methods of 'executing' it. Too heavy to hang, too big for the gas chamber... until they realize it might be electrocuted. They lure it to a trap consisting of steel Marsden Matting  connected to a generator. As the bulldozer is electrified, the alien entity emerges as an aura around the machine, then finally fades. The men shut down the power and check the scoop: no sound. Kelly realizes his story will not be believed as he is a recovering alcoholic - and this job was his last chance to redeem himself.Dave , Mike , Cyril ([[Daniel Stern  and Moocher  are four working-class friends, living in the college town of Bloomington, Indiana. Now turning 19 years of age, they all graduated from high school the year before and are not sure what to do next with their lives. They spend much of their time together swimming in an old abandoned water-filled quarry, but also often clash with the more affluent Indiana University students in their hometown, who habitually refer to them as "cutters", a derogatory term for locals stemming from the local Indiana Limestone industry and the stonecutters who worked the quarries. Dave is obsessed with competitive bicycle racing, particularly the Italians because he recently won a Masi bicycle. His down-to-earth father, Ray , a former stonecutter who now operates  his own used car business, is puzzled and exasperated by his son's love of Italian music and culture, which Dave associates with cycling. However, his mother Evelyn  is more understanding. Dave develops a crush on a university student named Katherine  and masquerades as an Italian exchange student in order to romance her. One evening he serenades "Katerina" outside her dorm, with Cyril providing guitar accompaniment. When her boyfriend Rod  finds out, he and some of his fraternity brothers beat up Cyril, mistaking him for Dave. Though Cyril wants no trouble, Mike insists on tracking down Rod and starting a brawl. The University president  reprimands the students for their arrogance toward the "cutters" and over their objections invites the latter to participate in the annual Indiana University Little 500 race. When a professional Italian cycling team comes to town for a racing event, Dave is thrilled to be competing with them. However, the Italians become irked when Dave is able to keep up with and even speak to them in Italian during the race. One of them jams a tire pump in Dave's wheel, causing him to crash, which leaves him disillusioned and depressed. This is a major turning point in the movie because earlier he was upset with his father for his unethical business practices. He now realizes everyone cheats. Dave's friends persuade him to join them in forming the locals' cycling team for the Little 500. Dave's parents provide t-shirts with the name "Cutters" on them. Dave's father remarks how, when he was a young stonecutter, he was proud to help provide the material to construct the university, yet never felt comfortable being on campus. Dave is so much better than the other competitors, he rides without a break and builds up a large lead, while the other teams have to switch cyclists every few laps. However, he is injured and has to stop. After some hesitation, Moocher, Cyril and Mike take turns pedaling, but soon their lead evaporates. Finally, Dave has his feet taped to the bike pedals and starts making up lost ground; he overtakes Rod on the last lap and wins. Dave's father is immensely proud of his son's accomplishment, so much so that he takes to riding a bicycle himself. Having finally decided on a direction in life, Dave later enrolls at the university himself, where he meets a pretty, newly arrived French student. Soon, he is extolling the superiority of French cyclists and culture, and the film ends with him greeting his father by saying, "Bonjour, Papa," much to his father's astonishment.In the near future, a technology enabling time travel has been developed and is now in commercial use. A group of aging former Nazis conspires to alter the results of the Second World War by traveling back in time and supplying Adolf Hitler with a hydrogen bomb. To this end, they bribe the corrupt time machine pilot Karel, who agrees to assist them. On the day of the scheduled journey, Karel chokes on a croissant and dies. His identical twin brother, Jan, cannot bring himself to tell Karel's fiancée Eva and begins to impersonate Karl. He is also later mistaken for Karel by the Nazis and stumbles along with their plot. Having been a designer of the rocket-ship time machine, he is able to pilot the ship and take them all back in time. When he realizes the nature of the Nazis' plans, Jan resolves to prevent their success. After triggering several paradoxes by travelling back and forth in time, he manages to defeat the Nazis and resolve the consequences of his twin's death.Sam Roffe, President of Roffe & Sons Pharmaceuticals, dies in a climbing accident leaving his daughter Elizabeth  a billion-dollar empire. Roffe's board members thus see the opportunity to settle old scores, jockey for higher positions, and reap lucrative profits. However, an investigation into Sam's accident uncovers a murder and a nefarious power struggle within the company. Lead investigator Max Hornung  informs Elizabeth of his list of suspects that includes her closest advisers and financially strapped family members. During this time she marries CEO Rhys Williams , but he, too, is identified by Hornung as a suspect. As president, Elizabeth refuses to let shares of Roffe & Sons sell on the world market. Her choice prevents the board members from selling their shares of stocks  and therefore remain in financial misery. Her death would allow for a unanimous decision to sell the board's stocks and get the money. After several attempts on her life an international chase ensues with Elizabeth unable to trust anyone.The film opens with professional assassin Jeff Heston  and mistress Vanessa  pursued mercilessly while holidaying in the Virgin Islands. Jeff is shot and left for dead, while Vanessa runs off with his shooter and former business associate Coogan. After his release from prison on a framed murder charge, Jeff tracks the pair to New Orleans. However, after taking revenge on his betrayer and reuniting with Vanessa, Jeff is blackmailed by the very crime boss  who framed him, took Vanessa as his mob wife, and who is now intent on having him join his organisation. When Jeff refuses, he is hunted through an unforgiving city only to discover that his real enemy is closer than he realised.The Klansman recounts what happens to an African American man in a small town in the U.S. south after a young white woman  is sexually assaulted and beaten. Events spiral out of control when a sniper shoots a Ku Klux Klan member at a funeral.Vonetta McGee plays Thomasine and Julien plays Bushrod in a film intended as a counterpart to the 1967 film Bonnie and Clyde. Thomasine and Bushrod go on a crime spree through the American south between 1911 and 1915, acting as Robin Hood type heroes who steal from rich, white capitalists, then give to Mexicans, Native Americans and poor whites.During a bank robbery in the American west, the partner of Scottish outlaw Arch Deans is killed and his young Indian half breed friend Billy Two Hats is captured. While Billy is being tranported, Deans gets the drop on Sheriff Henry Gifford at a remote trading post, enabling Billy to escape. As they flee, the sheriff's friend, the trading post owner, named Copeland, takes down his old long-range buffalo rifle and fires a shot that kills Deans' horse, breaking his leg. Billy builds a travois on which Deans can ride, dragged behind Billy's horse. Billy and Deans encounter Spencer and his wife, Esther, at their remote homestead. Deans persuades Spencer to take him in his wagon to get horses on the condition that Billy stay with Esther to protect her and the homestead from marauding Indians. Billy is also to keep a look out for the pursuing Gifford. Billy and Esther spend their time together talking and develop romantic feelings for each other. Esther, a young mail-order bride from the East, is unhappy with her older abusive husband. She falls in love with the young good looking Billy. Gifford finds the two in bed together, assumes Billy raped the woman, becomes enraged, and beats him. Esther attempts the explain but can't because she stutters uncontrollable when distressed. Deans and Spencer encounter trouble on the trail, four drunken Indians demand whiskey from them, ambush their wagon in a canyon, killing the horse and besiege them. Spenser is killed. Gifford, Esther and Billy then set out after Deans. They find Deans near death. With Esther's help Billy kills Gifford. Deans dies of his wounds.Set in the year 1909, Jacob "Big Jake" McCandles  is an aging rancher and near-legendary gunfighter estranged from his family. He wanders the west with his trusty Rough Collie, simply named Dog. The family's ranch is raided by a ruthless gang of outlaws led by John Fain . They kidnap Jacob's grandson Little Jake , for ransom, murdering ranch hands and seriously wounding Jacob's eldest son, Jeff . Martha McCandles  summons Jacob. Jacob and his wife have been separated for nearly 10 years. Jacob arrives by train and he and Martha discuss a plan to take the ransom to the kidnappers and for Jacob to return with the boy. Jacob warns that "Pay or not, we run the risk of never seeing the boy again". Martha has what is well known as a million dollars in a big red strongbox that Jacob is to deliver to the kidnappers. Martha has anticipated Jacob's needs for the job and Jacob is ready to go. When Michael brings word that he has seen the kidnappers in the Chilicothe Canyon, Texas Ranger Capt. Buck Duggan offers the services of his Texas Rangers, equipped with three REO touring cars. Martha chooses to go for it in spite of Jake's reluctance to try it. Both Michael and James go with the Rangers. Jake rides out on horseback with Sam Sharpnose  and Dog and head toward the border. The Rangers intend to ambush the kidnappers in the canyon but instead Fain's gang ambushes the Rangers. During the shoot-out, in which several Rangers are killed, James is wounded and all the early autos are immobilized. Jake arrives on horseback, shares his water with the Rangers, and threatens to kill Buck if his grandson gets killed. Jake takes Michael and James with him. That night, Fain rides into their camp to meet with Jake. However, Jake identifies himself as an employee of the McCandles Family while Fain pretends not to be the leader of the kidnappers but rather "just a messenger boy". Fain tells Jake that he will send "the boy's body back in a basket" if anything should go wrong. They cross into Mexico the next day and check into a hotel. Jake sets a trap for some men who were planning on stealing the strongbox. During the attack, the lock is blasted open revealing newspaper clippings instead of money. Michael becomes angry that he killed a man for newspaper clippings. Michael and James accuse Jake of stealing the ransom money and the three slug it out, but Jake assures them that it was both his and Martha's idea. James fears for Little Jake's life, but Jacob tells them they'll have to go in anyway. Pop Dawson arrives, gives them the details of the exchange, and leads them to the gang's hideout. Once there, James and Sam are kept outside, while Jake and Dog are led in. Michael sneaks in to take care of a sniper that will have a gun trained on the boy in case of a double-cross. Jake and Dog are led in to where Fain and four other gang members are waiting. Fain emphasizes that his little brother Will has a shotgun pointed toward the boy and he'll "blow that kid's head right off" if things go wrong and that there is a man who keeps his sniper rifle trained on Little Jake. Jake tosses the key of the chest to Fain, who eagerly opens up the chest only to find the newspaper clippings. In a fit of rage, Fain throws his lamp into the chest and orders "Kill the boy!" Jake opens fire with his shotgun, and kills Will and orders Dog to get Little Jake. Dog is shot by the sniper after saving Little Jake. Jake is shot in the leg by the sniper right after Dog, then Michael uses his sniper rifle and kills the kidnapper sniper. Jake regroups with Little Jake and Dog, who is wounded but still alive. After Little Jake tends to Jake's leg wound, Jake hands over his derringer, "Betsy," to Little Jake, ordering him to run out and find his uncle James. Little Jake had never fired a gun before, but he takes the gun and runs. A kidnapper named Trooper tries to sneak up on Jake. Sam opens fire on Trooper and kills him. While Sam is reloading, Fain returns fire and wounds Sam. John Goodfellow then finishes off Sam with a machete. Meanwhile, James takes on the other gang members. James is wounded in his left arm during a shoot-out where he kills two kidnappers. Breed is hiding on a wall and gets the drop on James and challenges him to draw. James shoots him off the wall. Fain shoots Jake in the left arm and Jake retreats from the shoot-out. The machete-wielding thug John Goodfellow searches for Little Jake who is hiding behind a post and casting a shadow that reveals his hiding place. Just as Little Jake is about to be killed, the badly-wounded Dog jumps in the way and attacks Goodfellow; Goodfellow manages to fight off Dog and hacks him to death with his machete . Jake starts to shoot Goodfellow; out of ammunition, he throws his gun at Goodfellow and then uses a pitchfork to kill him. Jake grabs Little Jake and they run. Fain rides up and prepares to finish off the two of them. Just as Fain is about to shoot, Michael shoots Fain in the chest, blasting him off his horse. Before he dies, Fain asks, "Who are you?" Jake answers, "Jacob McCandles." Fain says, "I thought you was dead," and then dies. "Not hardly," Jake replies. At the end, Sam, Dog, and all of the kidnappers are dead and James and Jake are wounded. With Little Jake rescued, the family heads home.The film opens with U.S. Coast Guard Lieutenant Jordan  responding to a number of pleas for help from civilian pleasure boat sailors off the coast of Southern California. This is the type of event that the Coast Guard has to put up with on a regular basis, and it is one of the reasons why Jordan has requested to transfer to a new station. He is handing over the reins to Ensign Tom Garland , a polite but remarkably clumsy fellow who will now report to Commander Taylor , a man who fought in World War II with Garland's father and holds him in high regard. Through a series of events, we see Garland's ineptitude as the station's new skipper. He repeatedly flounders in tending to the various minor issues plaguing the crowded waters' impatient travelers. It also doesn't take long for him to set his eyes on Kate Fairchild , a "girl next door" type who runs a local boat rental and sailing school spot on the coast. Meanwhile, three jewel thieves are making their way to Mexico while listening to reports of their pursuit. There's ringleader Harry Simmons  who poses as a yacht club "commodore" and dispatches orders to his two associates, Charlie  and Max . This trio has managed to steal a jewel collection, and they intend to smuggle them inside an assortment of casually-hollowed food. They decide to rent a boat from Kate to make their way south of the border, although none of the three know how to sail. The Boatniks follows Tom's nautical misadventures and romance, while at the same time following the attempts of the jewel thieves to escape to Mexico. With Kate's suggestion that the crooks' suspicious behavior might indicate criminality, she and Tom begin to suspect that they are indeed the three men reported about in a newspaper article. Tom is right about the suspects, but Commander Taylor doesn't initially believe it. Ultimately, Garland is able to convince Taylor, retrieve the stolen jewels, and ensure that the jewel thieves are arrested.The Pink Panther spends the day in his attic rummaging through an old trunk. Inside, he finds several old letters from his former Army friend, Loudmouth Louie, which causes the panther to reminisce about his past.In the year 2130, the USS spaceship Palomino is returning from deep space exploration. The crew consists of Captain Dan Holland, First Officer Lieutenant Charlie Pizer, journalist Harry Booth, ESP-sensitive scientist Dr. Kate McCrae, the expedition's civilian leader Dr. Alex Durant and the robot V.I.N.CENT . During its journey, the Palominos crew finds a black hole with a nearby derelict ship somehow defying the hole's gravitational pull. The ship is identified as the long-lost USS Cygnus, a ship McCrae's father, Ensign Frank McCrae, served aboard when it went missing. Deciding to investigate, the Palomino encounters a mysterious null gravity field surrounding the Cygnus. The Palomino becomes damaged when it drifts away from the Cygnus and into the black hole's intense gravity field, but the ship manages to move back to the Cygnus and finds itself able to dock. The Palomino crew encounters an android crew and Dr. Hans Reinhardt, a prominent scientist and the Cygnus's commander. They also meet Reinhardt's second-in-command, the hulking robot Maximilian. Reinhardt explains that after his ship encountered a meteor field and was disabled, he ordered the [human] crew to return to Earth, but Kate's father  chose to remain aboard and has since died. To the incredulity of the Palominos crew, Reinhardt reveals that he intends to fly the Cygnus through the black hole. Only Durant believes it possible and asks to accompany Reinhardt on the trip. The rest of the Palomino crew grow suspicious of the faceless drones' human-like behavior: Booth sees a robot limping and Holland witnesses a robot funeral and discovers the Cygnus crew's personal items in the ship's living quarters. Old B.O.B. , a battered early model robot similar to V.I.N.CENT, explains that the faceless drones are in fact the crew, who mutinied when Reinhardt refused to return to Earth. They had been lobotomized and "reprogrammed" to serve him. McCrae's father had led the mutiny and was killed. Using telepathy, V.I.N.CENT tells Kate the truth about what happened. When Kate tells Durant, he removes the reflective faceplate from a "robot" to reveal the face of a crew member. Durant tries to flee the bridge with Kate, but Maximilian kills him, contrary to Reinhardt's wishes. Reinhardt takes Kate prisoner, ordering her to be taken to the hospital to be lobotomized. As the process begins, Holland rescues Kate, along with V.I.N.CENT and B.O.B. Meanwhile, fearing the situation is escalating dangerously, Booth attempts to escape alone in the Palomino. Reinhardt orders the craft shot down, but the weapons fire sends the ship crashing into the Cygnus, destroying its port-side anti-gravity forcefield generator. A meteor storm then destroys the starboard generator. Without its null-gravity bubble, the Cygnus starts to tear apart under the black hole's gravity. Reinhardt and the Palomino survivors separately plan their escape aboard a probe used to study the black hole. Maximilian goes to prepare the probe shortly before Reinhardt is pinned by falling debris. His lobotomized crew stand motionless as he struggles. Maximilian confronts the others and fatally cripples Old B.O.B. moments before he is crippled by V.I.N.CENT and drifts out of the ship. Holland, Pizer, McCrae and V.I.N.CENT reach the probe, only to discover the controls locked onto a flight-path through the black hole. It then plunges across the hole's event horizon. In a dialogue-free epilogue, the travelers exit the hole and, possibly viewed through Kate's ESP vision, enter Hell and then Heaven.Does The Black Hole still suck? Movie review by Joshua Moss, June 2, 2000. Reinhardt and Maximilian merge and stand on a high rock overlooking a burning, hellish landscape{{spaced ndash}}possibly the remains of the Cygnus{{spaced ndash}}populated by robed figures resembling the drones. Next, a floating, ethereal figure with flowing long hair passes through a cathedral-like crystal arched tunnel. The probe then emerges from a white hole in another universe and is seen near a star and planet. The last shot shows the probe flying toward the planet.Set in Los Angeles in 1941, against a seamy backdrop of police corruption, cheap hotel rooms, illegal gambling and jewel trafficking, private detective Philip Marlowe is holed up in a hotel room and growing more weary by the hour. As he explains to his police lieutenant friend Nulty: "I've got a hat, a coat and a gun, that's it." Marlowe has been hired by a huge and surly ex-convict, Moose Malloy, to find his old girlfriend Velma, whom he hasn't seen in years. At the same time, Marlowe is investigating the murder of a client who was a victim of blackmail and a stolen necklace made of jade. While encountering connections to both cases, Marlowe develops an attraction to the married but seductive Helen Grayle. As the body count mounts, Marlowe survives numerous attempts on his life which include being drugged and held captive by a psychotic madam. The action comes to a head with a shootout on a gambling boat off the L.A. coast.Kennedy plays Paul Cameron, an insurance executive who finds out he has a brain tumor. His family will receive nothing under his current policies, but there is a huge reward for information leading to the arrest of the murderer of a businessman. Cameron frames himself for the murder in the hopes of collecting the reward money for his wife in an anonymous bank account. Cameron is found guilty and sentenced to death, but then is cured of the disease, and escapes in order to find the real killer and clear his name.Four Atlanta businessmen, Lewis , Ed , Bobby  and Drew , decide to canoe down the Cahulawassee River in the remote Georgia wilderness, expecting to have fun and see the glory of nature before the river valley is flooded by the construction of a dam. Lewis, an experienced outdoorsman, is the leader. Ed is also a veteran of several trips but lacks Lewis' machismo. Bobby and Drew are novices. The four are clearly the outsiders in this rural location. The crude locals are unimpressed by the "city boys;" it is also implied that some of the locals are inbred. While attempting to secure drivers for their vehicles , Drew briefly connects with a local banjo-playing boy by joining him in an impromptu bluegrass jam. When they finish, however, the boy turns away without saying anything, refusing the effusive Drew's handshake. The four men exhibit a slightly condescending attitude toward the locals; Bobby, in particular, is very patronizing and even derides the locals to his companions for seeming to display genetic defects. The men spend the day canoeing down the river in pairs before camping by the riverside at night. Shortly before they retire for bed, Lewis tells the others to be quiet and disappears into the dark woods to investigate a sound he heard. He returns shortly and says that he did not find anything. When asked whether he heard something or someone, he tells them he does not know. While traveling the next day, the group's two canoes are separated. Pulling ashore to get their bearings, Bobby and Ed encounter a pair of unkempt hillbillies emerging from the woods, one toothless and carrying a shotgun. After some tense conversation in which the hillbillies appear to be goading the others, Ed speculates that the two locals have a moonshine still hidden in the woods and Bobby amicably offers to buy some. The hillbillies are not moved and Bobby is forced at gunpoint to strip naked. Bobby is next chased, humiliated, ordered to "squeal like a pig" and is then violently sodomized. Ed is unable to help because he has been tied to a tree and is held by the toothless hillbilly. Meanwhile, Lewis and Drew dock their canoe. Hearing the commotion, Lewis secretly sneaks up and kills the rapist with an arrow from his hunting bow; Ed grabs the shotgun as the other captor quickly vanishes into the woods. Lewis and Drew argue about whether to inform the authorities. Lewis insists that they would not receive a fair trial and that the jury would be composed of the dead man's friends and relatives. Bobby agrees and does not want the incident of his rape to become public. Lewis tells them that since the entire area would be flooded by a lake soon, the body will never be found and the escaped hillbilly could not inform the authorities since he had participated in the incident. The men vote 3-to-1 to side with Lewis' recommendation to bury the dead hillbilly's body and continue as though nothing had happened. During the digging, Drew, the lone dissenting voter, is clearly upset and having trouble coming to terms with the decision. The four make a run for it downriver, cutting their trip short, but soon disaster strikes as the canoes reach a dangerous stretch of rapids. In the lead canoe, Ed repeatedly implores Drew to don his life jacket, but Drew ignores him without a word of explanation. As Drew and Ed reach the rapids, Drew's head appears to shake and he falls forward into the river. After Drew disappears into the river, Ed loses control of his canoe and both canoes collide with the rocks, spilling Lewis, Bobby and Ed into the river. Lewis breaks his leg and the others are washed ashore alongside him. The badly-injured Lewis believes the toothless hillbilly shot Drew and is now stalking them. Later that night, under cover of darkness, Ed climbs a nearby rock face in order to dispatch the suspected shooter using his bow, while Bobby stays behind to look after Lewis. Ed reaches the top and hides out until the next morning, when he sees the man he was looking for standing on the cliff holding a rifle, looking down into the gorge where Lewis and Bobby are hiding. The man appears to be the hillbilly that escaped through the woods. Ed, a champion archer who earlier lost his nerve while aiming at a deer, again freezes in spite of his clear shot. The man notices him and fires as the former champion clumsily releases his arrow. Ed falls to the ground in a panic and accidentally stabs himself with another of his arrows. The man reaches the wounded Ed and is about to kill him when he collapses, revealing Ed's arrow sticking through the man's neck. Ed remembers that the hillbilly who tried to assault him had no front teeth, and upon initial examination, the dead man seems to have all of them. Ed examines his victim's dentition more closely and discovers he has a partial, movable plate for his front two missing teeth. Ed lowers the body down the cliff with a rope and climbs down after it. His rope breaks and he falls in the river, but swims to shore and meets with Bobby and Lewis. Bobby asks more than once if Ed is certain the dead man is the same as the one they confronted earlier. Ed, clearly irritated and not completely sure himself, snaps at Bobby and asks him to confirm the man's identity. Ed and Bobby weigh the dead hillbilly down with stones and drop him into the river. Later, they come upon Drew's grotesquely-contorted corpse and after being unable to find any definite gunshot wound, they also weigh it down into the river. Ed points out that they don't want the authorities examining Drew's body and possibly discovering a gunshot wound. Ed gives a short eulogy and sinks it in the river to ensure that it will never be found. With Lewis injured and Drew dead, Ed now becomes the leader, trying to ensure their story is consistent, knowing the local authorities will investigate. When they finally reach their destination, the town of Aintry, which will soon be submerged by the river and is being evacuated, they take the injured Lewis to the local hospital while the sheriff comes to investigate the incident. One of the Deputies, named Arthur Queen, has a missing brother-in-law  and is highly suspicious. Ed and Bobby visit Lewis' hospital room to make sure Lewis' version of events is consistent with theirs. They are unsure if the apparently unconscious Lewis understands them, however as the doctors enter, Lewis appears to awaken, gives Ed and Bobby a knowing wink and says he remembers nothing. Later, as the men prepare to drive home, the sheriff suddenly asks Ed why there were four life jackets when only Lewis, Ed and Bobby came out of the river. Stammering, Bobby suggests there may have been an extra one, then realizes his mistake. But Ed says no, that Drew was not wearing his life jacket and he does not know why. The sheriff remains suspicious, but having no evidence simply tells Ed, "Don't ever do nothin' like this again. Don't come back up here. I'd kinda like to see this town die peaceful," to which Ed readily agrees. The men vow to keep their story a secret for the rest of their lives, which proves to be psychologically burdensome for Ed; in the final scene, he awakes screaming from a nightmare in which a dead man's hand rises from the lake.In Guatemala, two reckless fortune-hunting pilots bribe officials in order to fly a load of coffee beans from South America into the United States. To increase their profits, they take aboard three passengers whom they agree to smuggle into the U.S. Problems arise when sacks of the beans containing deadly tarantulas are loaded into the cargo bay. During the flight, the poisonous arachnids irritated by the plane’s vibration and high altitude escape from the sacks during a fierce thunderstorm. As the plane wobbles under the torrential rains, the sacks split open spilling the beans and the noxious spiders. The three illegal immigrants, also in the hold are trapped in the cargo hold with the spiders. They vainly attempt to hold off the spiders with their shoes or whatever swat-material they can fine. The lethal spiders eventually overcome all three. Meanwhile in the cockpit, the pilots work to overcome a developing mechanical problem that endangers the aircraft. They realize they must make an emergency landing as they pass over the orange-producing town of Finleyville, California. Unbeknownst to the pilots, the arachnids have escaped and have begun to swarm the cockpit, attacking the pilots. The plane crash-lands near Finleyville. The city’s emergency response system moves to aid the downed aircraft and pilots. A fire breaks out at the crash site and the deadly tarantulas scurry from the location toward a nearby orange grove. The fire is brought under control and the pilots and passengers are pulled from the airplane. Those not killed begin to exhibit strange symptoms. The town’s physician, Dr. Hodgins , is baffled until a local citizen who has been bitten, sudden drops to the ground. Cindy Beck  and her brother Matthew  investigate the site but fail to see the spiders. Cindy’s husband  aids with the investigation. A family of aviators, the Beck family attempts to solve the puzzle of why the plane crashed. In the meantime, the tarantulas continue their attacks, and more people are brought into Dr. Hodgins’ clinic. The doctor finally figures it out, but by this time, the spiders have spread out. The city’s mayor is fearful that any news of the problem infesting the city’s oranges will bring the township financial ruin. Bert Springer , one of the city’s responsible citizens, helps the Beck family investigate. Cindy’s son is bitten and incapacitated by the spider. Knowing the problem, the doctor saves the boy. Bert organizes the town citizens, and they risk their lives trying to save the town as the food-seeking spiders converge on the orange packaging plant. The plan to get rid of the spiders involves exposing the deadly arachnids to the buzzing sounds of their enemy: bees. Using a recording of bees buzzing, the tarantulas are rendered motionless with the bee sounds. This allows everyone to collect the spiders in jars. During the process, the electrical system switches off, and Cindy finds herself suddenly surrounded by the deadly spiders. At the last minute, the electricity is switched back on, Cindy is saved, and the remainder of spiders are eliminated.Having spent a good deal of time enjoying the company of their newfound family and friends at Witch Mountain and intensively studying and practicing their supernatural powers, it is decided that Tony and Tia deserve a vacation in Los Angeles, California. Uncle Bené drops them off in their flying saucer in the Rose Bowl Stadium, after which they quickly become separated from each other. Dr. Gannon and Letha happen to see Tony using his powers, kidnap him, and successfully test the doctor's new mind-control technology on him. With Tony at his robotic bidding, Dr. Gannon hopes to achieve recognition within the scientific community and worldwide power, while Letha merely wants a return on her investment.  Tia must find Tony and foil the villains' nefarious plans. Fortunately, a group of would-be toughs, called the Earthquake Gang, and hapless truant officer Mr. Yokomoto&nbsp;— whom the toughs call "Yo-Yo"&nbsp;— come to her aid.James Bond – agent 007 – pursues Ernst Stavro Blofeld and eventually finds him at a facility, where Blofeld look-alikes are being created through surgery. Bond kills a test subject, and later the 'real' Blofeld, by drowning him in a pool of superheated mud. While assassins Mr. Wint and Mr. Kidd systematically kill several diamond smugglers, M suspects that South African diamonds may be being stockpiled to depress prices by dumping, and orders Bond to uncover the smuggling ring. Disguised as professional smuggler and murderer Peter Franks, Bond travels to Amsterdam to meet contact Tiffany Case. The real Franks shows up on the way, but Bond intercepts and kills him and switches IDs to make it seem like Franks is Bond. Case and Bond then go to Los Angeles, smuggling the diamonds inside Franks' corpse. At the airport Bond meets his CIA ally Felix Leiter and goes to a funeral home, where Franks' body is cremated and the diamonds passed onto the next smuggler, Shady Tree. Bond is nearly killed by Wint and Kidd when they put him in a cremation oven, but Tree stops the process when he discovers that the diamonds in Franks' body were fakes, planted by Bond and the CIA. Bond tells Leiter to ship the real diamonds as he goes to Las Vegas. There Bond goes to the Whyte House, a casino-hotel owned by the reclusive billionaire Willard Whyte, where Tree works as a stand-up comedian. Then Bond discovers Tree has been killed by Wint and Kidd, who did not know that the diamonds were fake. At the craps table, Bond meets the opportunistic Plenty O' Toole, and after gambling, brings her to his room. Gang members are waiting there and throw O'Toole out the window and into the pool. After they leave, Bond spends the rest of the night with Tiffany Case. Bond then tells Tiffany, who wants to steal the diamonds for herself, to retrieve the diamonds at the Circus Circus casino. Tiffany picks up the diamonds, but reneges on her deal and flees, passing off the diamonds to the next smuggler. However, seeing that O'Toole was killed after being mistaken for her, Tiffany changes her mind and drives Bond to the airport, where the diamonds are given to Bert Saxby. Following Saxby's van, Bond eventually enters the car which drives to a remote facility. Bond enters the apparent destination of the diamonds – a research laboratory owned by Whyte, where he finds that a satellite is being built by a laser refraction specialist, Professor Dr. Metz. When Bond's cover is blown, he escapes by stealing a moon buggy and reunites with Tiffany. Bond and Tiffany return to the Whyte House. Bond scales the walls to the top floor to confront Whyte. Inside, 007 is instead confronted by two identical Blofelds who use an electronic device to sound like Whyte. Bond kills one of the Blofelds, but it turns out to be a look-alike. He is then knocked out by gas, where he is picked up by Wint and Kidd and taken out to Las Vegas Valley where he is placed in a pipeline and left to die. After Bond escapes, he calls Blofeld posing as Saxby. He finds out Whyte's location and rescues him, but in the meantime Blofeld abducts Case. With the help of Whyte, Bond raids the lab and uncovers Blofeld's plot to create a laser satellite using the diamonds, which by now is already in orbit. With the satellite, Blofeld destroys nuclear weapons in China, the Soviet Union and the United States, then proposes an international auction for global nuclear supremacy. Whyte identifies an oil rig off the coast of Baja California as Blofeld's base of operations. After Bond's attempt to change the cassette containing the satellite control codes fails due to a mistake by Tiffany, Leiter and the CIA begin a helicopter attack on the rig. Blofeld tries to escape on a mini-sub, but Bond gains control of it, crashing it into the control room, causing the satellite control and base to be destroyed. Bond and Tiffany then head for Britain on a cruise ship, where Bond also foils Wint and Kidd's attempt to kill them with a hidden bomb.Tony Manero  is a 19-year old Italian American from the Bay Ridge, Brooklyn neighborhood of New York City. Tony lives at home with his parents , and works a dead-end job in a small hardware store by day. But every Saturday night, Tony is "king of the dance floor" at 2001 Odyssey, a local disco club. Tony has four close friends: Joey ; Double J ; Gus ; and the diminutive Bobby C. ([[Barry Miller . Another informal member of their group is Annette , a neighborhood girl who longs for a more permanent and physical relationship with Tony. One plot device in the story is the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, on which the friends ritually stop to clown around, but is particularly symbolic to Tony as an escape to a better life on the other side. Tony agrees to be Annette's partner in an upcoming dance contest at 2001 Odyssey, but her happiness is short-lived when Tony becomes infatuated with another girl dancing at the club, Stephanie Mangano . Stephanie coldly rejects Tony's advances, but eventually agrees to be his partner in the competition, nothing more. Tony's older brother, Frank Jr. , who was the pride of the family since becoming a priest in the Catholic Church, brings despair to their parents when he quits the priesthood. Tony shares a warm relationship with Frank Jr., but feels vindicated, no longer being the black sheep. While on his way home from the grocery store, Gus is attacked by a Hispanic gang and is hospitalized, and tells the guys it was the Barracudas. Meanwhile, Bobby C. has been trying to get out of his relationship with his devoutly Catholic girlfriend, Pauline, who is pregnant with his child. Facing pressure from his family and others to marry her, Bobby asks former priest Frank Jr., if the Pope would grant him dispensation for an abortion. But when Frank tells him this would be highly unlikely, Bobby's feelings of despair deepen. Bobby C also lets Tony borrow his 1964 Chevrolet Impala to help move Stephanie from Bay Ridge to Manhattan, with Tony promising to call him later that night, but Tony does not. Eventually, the group gets their revenge on the Barracudas, and crash Bobby C's car into their hangout. Tony, Double J and Joey get out to fight, but Bobby C. takes off when a gang member tries to attack him in the car. When the guys visit Gus in the hospital, they are angry when he tells them that he may have fingered the wrong gang. Later, Tony and Stephanie dance at the competition and end up winning first prize. However, Tony believes that a Puerto Rican couple performed better, and the judges' decision was based on racism. He gives the Puerto Ricans the first prize, and leaves with Stephanie in tow. Once outside in the car, he tries to rape Stephanie, resulting in her fleeing from him. Tony's friends come to the car along with a drunken and stoned Annette, who Joey says has agreed to have sex with everyone. Tony tries to lead her away, but is subdued by Double J and Joey, and sullenly leaves with the group in the car. Double J and Joey take turns with Annette, who begins to sober up during what has become a rape scene. Bobby C. pulls the car over on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge for the usual cable-climbing antics. Typically abstaining, Bobby gets out and performs more dangerous stunts than the rest. Realizing that he is acting recklessly, Tony tries to get him to come down. But upset at his lonely life, his situation with Pauline, and a broken promise from Tony earlier, Bobby issues a tirade at Tony's lack of care before slipping and falling to his death more than two hundred feet in the water below. Disgusted and disillusioned by his friends, his life and his family, Tony spends the rest of the night riding the subway. As morning comes, he finally shows up at Stephanie's apartment in Manhattan, apologizing for his bad behavior. He tells her that he plans to leave Brooklyn and come to Manhattan to try and start a new life. Tony and Stephanie salvage their relationship and agree to be friends, sharing a tender moment as the credits roll.Kansas  is a stunt coordinator in charge of horses on a western being shot in a small Peruvian village. Following a tragic incident on the set where an actor is killed in a stunt, Kansas decides to quit the movie business and stay in Peru with a local woman. Kansas thinks he has found paradise, but is soon called in to help in a bizarre incident: the Peruvian natives are "filming" their own movie with "cameras" made of sticks, and acting out real western movie violence, as they don't understand movie fakery. The film touches on the ideas of fiction versus reality, especially in regards to cinema. The movie is presented in a way that challenges the viewer's traditional cinematic understanding of storytelling, by presenting the story in a non-chronological fashion, and by including several devices typically only seen behind the scenes of filmmaking , and the use of jarring jump cuts.An unidentified flying object makes an emergency landing on Earth and is taken into custody by the United States government. The occupant of the "flying saucer" turns out to be a cat-like alien named Zunar-J-5/9 Doric-4-7, or Jake  as he is called by his human friends (a tawny [[Abyssinian . When the Army takes his space ship into custody, without any sign of 'the pilot', which could be a 'slimey, green-headed, twelve-legged creep', Jake realizes that he needs help to not only get his ship back, but repair it as well, since the Mother Ship cannot send one in time. Tracking the military to the Energy Research Laboratory  Jake uses his special collar to spy on the top energy specialists in the country, hoping to find an ally. But while none of them possesses the knowledge that Jake needs, a theoretical scientist named Dr. Frank Wilson  comes along and explains that the propulsion unit from Jake's ship, which the military has brought to E.R.L. because they want to know what makes it tick, is tapping the Primal Mainstream. More commonly referred to as electromagnetic energy pulled in from the universe itself, Frank is rebuffed in his claims due to his odd sense of humor. Jake follows Frank to his office in the bottom floor of the E.R.L. building, where Frank nicknames him Jake. Before Jake can communicate with Frank his intentions, Dr. Liz Bartlet , who heads the Thermal Department, storms into his office, upset at Franks sense of humor in light of such an important scientific discovery. Frank is able to calm her down, mostly by introducing Jake, and asks her out to dinner. Liz accepts and leaves the small office. Once she has gone, Jake reveals his true nature to Frank, demonstrating his incredible powers of mental-communication and levitation thanks to the special collar around his neck. He eventually manages to convince Frank to help him, by offering him a quantum-leap in his own research on energy. After helping Dr. Norman Link, a garbage researcher at E.R.L., win a basketball game  and dodging Liz and her cat Lucybelle by Jake faking a cold, the pair break into Hopscotch Air Base, where Jake's ship is being kept, and after freezing a guard dog and a soldier to get by, make it into the hangar to commence repairs. Using a back-up collar, Frank is able to fly around the hangar and eventually up to the top of the ship where he plants a special intercog device that helps Jake find out the problem. Realizing one of the catalizers has burnt out, Jake needs an element called "Org 12" in order to be able to fly once again. However, Frank doesn't know what "Org 12" is, and when Jake's computer identifies its atomic weight as 196.967, Frank realizes that "Org 12" on Earth is actually Gold. The pair barely escape from Hopscotch base alive when a passing security guard finds the frozen soldier and dog and hits the alarm, and after Jake levitates Frank and a stolen motorcycle over the locked fence, the pair get back to Frank's apartment. There, Frank tells Jake that, based on Jake's calculations, they will need $120,000 dollars in order to buy the necessary gold to repair Jake's ship. Which is money that Frank doesn't have. The answer comes to them when Link comes over to watch horse races and football games, that he had placed major bets on. Realizing that they can use this to win the money they need, Jakes uses his powers help Link's horse, called Sweet Jake, win the derby. Jake and Frank use this to convince Link to help them, but have to convince Link to help them willingly. After a series of levitation tricks, Link agrees to help them. But when Jake gets knocked out by a well-meaning vet in the second football game, brought in by Dr. Bartlet because she thought Jake was still sick, the pair pull Liz along to Ernest Ernies Pool Hall, where Link has called in his bets. Desperate to get even when they find out the last football game has been lost, they are tricked into a game of pool with a hustler named Sarasota Slim. At first Frank's attempts to use Jake's collar to win go awry, nearly killing a couple of people by sending pool balls flying all over the room, Jake wakes up thanks to an onion-heavy sandwich from one of the spectators. Convincing Ernie to give them one last shot, Jake manipulates the game in order to enable Liz to win the $120,000 they need to acquire the gold for Jake's ship. However, all this time, a man named Stallwood, , has been watching Frank and Jake. Working as a spy at E.R.L., Stallwood first became aware of this when he say Frank and Jake break into Hopscotch. Worse, Stallwood works for a master criminal named Olympus, who is after the secret of Jake's collar for the purposes of universal domination. To make matters worse, the military are also on to Frank and Jake, and go to arrest them for the sake of National Security. Frank and Jake manage to elude the military and the criminals, only to have Link and Liz  captured by Olympus and his men. They plan to ransom them back for the collar, which forces Jake to make a desperate decision. Jake sends his ship back to the awaiting Mother Ship, which will not return for another 115 years, and stays on Earth in order to help rescue his friends. In the end, Jake and Frank use a broken-down biplane to rescue Liz and Lucybelle from Olympus's helicopter, and Jake is allowed to stay as a representative of a 'friendly power'. He then applies for citizenship in the United States, with Frank as his sponsor, using his powers to levitate the judge who is swearing him in.Set in the prohibition era, a rum runner  in the Caribbean falls in love with a beautiful silent film star, Linda Larue .<ref name2006|firstSinger|titleMcFarland}}Three rookie cops, Roy Fehler, Gus Plebesly and Sergio Duran, report for duty with the Los Angeles police department. Roy is married with a daughter and intends to eventually become a law student. Gus is a father of three. Serge is a native of East L.A. who never expected to end up patrolling its streets. Each is assigned a veteran partner. Roy's is the greatly experienced Andy Kilvinski, who has been on the force for nearly a quarter-century and has his own unique style of law enforcement. For example, he will have hookers driven around for hours in a paddy wagon, simply to keep them off the streets for a night. Gus rides with Whitey Duncan. As they answer a burglary call at a market, Gus opens fire on a suspicious figure in the alley, only to discover to his horror that it is the owner of the store. Roy begins to frustrate his wife Dorothy by becoming obsessed with police work, neglecting his family and dropping out of law school. He likes the life on the street, but during a convenience store holdup, Roy asks a parked couple to move their car and is unexpectedly shot with a shotgun. Gus and Serge discuss their fear of being shot. Serge temporarily partners with Andy, and together they handle a volatile situation with a slum landlord. Roy gradually recovers and quickly encounters a shootout, but doesn't flinch. As the rookies mark a year on the job, Andy reaches his 25th anniversary and mandatory retirement. He discusses the difficulties of police work at a farewell party with the younger men. Roy is assigned to the vice squad, where the job is anything but glamorous. Dorothy has had enough. She leaves him and takes their daughter. The young cops are delighted to get a visit from Andy, who has retired to Florida but misses police work, regretting never having spent more time on a personal life. After speaking with Roy one last time on the phone, Andy picks up a gun and kills himself. Depression gets the better of Roy, who begins to drink on the job. He answers a burglary call and the victim turns out to be Lorrie, a nurse who helped him after he got shot. Later on patrol, a prostitute speeds off with Roy hanging from the car. He barely avoids serious injury and Lorrie helps patch him up, but he draws a three-week suspension for being drunk. Roy begins seeing Lorrie socially and comes to his senses, appreciating the need for personal relationships and remembering what led Andy to end his life. He goes on a routine patrol with both Gus and Serge and answers a domestic disturbance report. A man appears out of nowhere, and before Serge can disarm him, Roy is shot. He dies in Gus's arms.Based on the 1943 classic book of the same name by Antoine de Saint Exupéry, the fable tells the story of an aviator  forced to make an emergency landing in the Sahara Desert. There he is befriended by a young boy, the Little Prince from Asteroid B-612. In the days that follow, The Pilot hears about his past and various journeys throughout the solar system. As he travels through space, the Little Prince encounters several strange grown-ups on different planetoids, all with a skewed way of looking at life. But it is not until he finally reaches Earth, that the Little Prince learns his most important life lessons of all, mainly from The Fox , and The Snake . These lessons the Little Prince shares with The Pilot, before the Little Prince dies.Butterflies have apparently become a lethal weapon. Several rivals contend for a mysterious prize, using a variety of unusual weapons.A psychopathic bomber  sneaks into Ocean View Amusement Park and places a small radio-controlled bomb on the tracks of the park's wooden roller coaster, The Rocket. The bomb detonates, causing the ride to derail, which kills several riders. Harry Calder , a ride inspector who is trying to kick his smoking habit, is called to the park to investigate what initially appears to have been an accident. Calder determines that there was an unauthorized man on the track, thus eliminating structural problems as the cause of the crash. Meanwhile, the bomber flies to Pittsburgh where he sets a dark ride at another park on fire, although everyone escapes without injuries. Unable to discover any more information from the parks, Calder heads to Chicago where the heads of the parks are having a meeting. The room where the meeting is held has been bugged by the bomber, who has disguised himself as a bell boy. Calder demands to be let into the meeting, then plays a tape the Young Man has sent, wherein he demands $1 million to stop his bombing campaign. When Calder returns home he receives a call from the Young Man, who heard from his bugging of the meeting room that Calder is to go to Virginia, where the money is to be delivered to the bomber. The FBI arrive, led by Agent Hoyt , who confirms that the extortion money is to be delivered by Calder. Although reluctant, Calder flies to Kings Dominion in Richmond. He is told to wait at a telephone in the park, and is called by the bomber who is secretly watching him from the Eiffel Tower replica in the park. He tells Calder that there is a bomb in the park, and is given a two-way radio by a courier sent by the bomber. Over the radio, Calder is ordered to go on various rides in the park including Rebel Yell, the park's racing wooden coaster. When he gets on the Skyway, the Young Man tells Calder that the bomb is in his radio but he must not throw it away because it will explode on impact, and the paths below the Skyway are crowded with patrons. Calder is then ordered to falsely signal that he has made the delivery once leaving the Skyway, in order to distract the FBI who are watching him. The bomber tells Calder to leave the money on a bench for the Young Man in Hanna-Barbera Land. When the Young Man fails to respond to on the radio, Calder turns around to see the bag gone. After a heated argument with Hoyt and the discovery that Hoyt marked the money , Calder demands to be sent home leaving the bomb squad to take care of the radio-bomb. Once home, Calder receives a call in the middle of the night from the Young Man. He blames Calder for having the money marked and threatens another attack. Calder suspects that the Young Man will strike The Great American Revolution at Magic Mountain as his next target, because it is one of the coasters that Calder personally inspected and cleared. By so doing, Calder figures, the Young Man can take revenge on both the FBI and Calder. Though Hoyt and the other FBI agents don't believe Calder's theory, they decide to go there anyway to investigate, as the ride is scheduled to debut on July 4. While inspecting the ride disguised as park maintenance men, the agents find a bomb attached to the tracks. They are able to cut the bomb's antenna just moments before the Young Man realizes that his bomb has been discovered and tries to detonate the explosives. The bomber returns to his car and gets a new bomb just as the Revolution is about to open for the first time. In order to get on board, he pays $100 for a "Gold Ticket" which entitles him to be on the first train of the new ride. He places the new bomb under his seat in the back of Revolution's train. As the riders get off, Calder recognizes the Young Man's voice while he is interviewed at the exit of the ride. He immediately chases after the bomber, telling the other agents he might have placed something in train. However, it is too late to stop the train since it has already passed the chain lift on its second ride through. Intrigued by Calder's intelligence, the cornered bomber threatens to blow up the ride, holding the detonator in his hand while the agents try to jam the signal. The Young Man demands a firearm, which Calder takes from an agent. As Calder is about to hand him the gun, the FBI succeed in jamming the detonator's signal. Calder shoots the Young Man who then runs away. He hops a fence into the field below the Revolution, running blindly, not realizing he is going in a circle that leads him right back to Calder. The bomber climbs onto the track of the Revolution and prepares to escape, but sees Calder and freezes. Distracted, the Young Man is hit and killed by the coaster. The film ends with Calder requesting a cigarette and a light from a stranger, but then drops them on the ground, deciding not to smoke, as the ride proudly re-opens.The film starts in medieval times, when a young couple is attacked by Templar knights. The man is instantly killed, the woman is carried away to the Templar's castle where she is sacrificed. The story then continues in the 20th century. A doctor and his wife are moving into a very primitive coast town, where they are met with distrust and hatred from the locals. It doesn't take long before the doctor and his wife find out that the town harbors an ancient evil: Every seven years undead Templars will ride from the sea for seven consecutive nights to demand the sacrifice of a young maiden. The doctor and his wife then try to save one of the maidens, Lucy, from her horrible fate, aided by the local village idiot.The film opens during the American Civil War. Col. Cord McNally  has instructions telegraphed to his close friend, Lt. Forsythe , in charge of the Union troops on a Union army payroll train. However, Confederates led by Capt. Pierre Cordona  and Sgt. Tuscarora Phillips  hijack the train. They have an elegant plan of listening in on the telegraph wires, greasing the tracks to stop the train, disconnecting the payroll wagon from the engine so it would roll back down the hill, using a hornet's nest to force the Union guards to jump off the train, then catching the train with many ropes tied to trees. In the process, Lt. Forsythe is fatally injured. In the subsequent fighting, they trick McNally and capture him. But McNally leads them into a Union camp, pushes a branch forward, and lets it swing back to knock Tuscarora off his horse, then yells out to the camp. As the Confederates flee, McNally jumps Cordona. McNally realizes that a traitor must be selling information to the Confederate States of America, in order for the hijackings to be successful. McNally questions the pair, but they give him no information and are imprisoned. When the War ends, McNally visits them as they are being released, and asks them to tell him from whom they got their information. When Tuscarora points out that they were the ones who had killed McNally's friends yet McNally has nothing against them, McNally replies that the killing was an act of war, while the one who sold them the information was a traitor. Unfortunately they don't know the traitors' identities, having only seen them from a distance. One was a big, dark-haired, mustachioed man, and the other was very white-haired and pale. McNally then tells Cordona and Tuscarora that if they should ever come across these men again, to contact him through a friend of his, Pat Cronin , who is the sheriff of Blackthorne in Texas. Tuscarora is on his way to Rio Lobo, Texas where he grew up. Later McNally is contacted by Cronin on instructions from Cordona. When he arrives in Blackthorne, however, Cordona is sleeping in a hotel room with a girl. While waiting for him, a woman, Shasta Delaney , arrives, wishing to report a murder that took place in Rio Lobo. Cronin claims that there's nothing he can do, because Rio Lobo is outside his jurisdiction. Later a posse from Rio Lobo arrives and wants to take Delaney away. She claims, however, that the leader, "Whitey" , is the murderer about whom she has been talking. When one of the posse aims a gun at Cronin, Shasta shoots Whitey under the table, and Cronin and McNally finish off the posse. As the last one is about to shoot McNally, Cordona appears at the top of the stairs and shoots the gunman. Shasta faints from the shock of killing someone. Cordona tells McNally that Whitey was one of the men for whom McNally was looking. He goes on to tell McNally that Tuscarora had contacted him and had told him that he saw one of the men, for whom McNally is looking in Rio Lobo. He also reports that there is trouble in Rio Lobo and that Tuscarora needs help. His father and other ranchers are being bullied by a man named Ketcham, who installed his sheriff, "Blue Tom" Hendricks ([[Mike Henry , after Hendricks killed the previous incumbent. So McNally, Cordona, and Shasta go to Rio Lobo, where they discover graft and corruption. Hendricks arrests Tuscarora on trumped up charges. For further help, they go to Tuscarora's father, Old Man Philips . When the three sneak into Ketcham's ranch, McNally learns that Ketcham is really Sergeant Major Ike Gorman , the traitor. McNally punches him around and forces him to sign the title deeds of the ranches back to their rightful owners. Philips then wires the triggers back, forming a dead-man's trap, on his double barreled shotgun so they can order Hendricks and his men out of the jail . They take over the town jail for cover, freeing Tuscarora, while Cordona goes for the Cavalry. Meanwhile, Tuscarora's girlfriend Maria Carmen  and her friend Amelita  lend assistance. For that, Hendricks slashes Amelita's face, and Amelita swears to McNally that she will kill Hendricks. However, Ketcham's men capture Cordona. Ketcham's gang offers to trade Cardona for Ketcham. In the meantime, word spread of the trade and roughly 20 ranchers  offered to help, knowing that, if McNally failed, the town would have gained nothing from the returned deeds. During the prisoner exchange, Cordona dives from the bridge into the river where Tuscarora was hiding. McNally yells out that Ketcham is now bankrupt, having signed the deeds back, so the furious sheriff guns Ketcham down, and in turn, McNally and the sheriff shoot each other in the leg. After a failed attempt to blow up the cantina McNally's force was in, they are outflanked and outgunned by the other ranchers who have come to help. Hendricks's men realize that and they flee. Hendricks shoots at them, but he had been using his rifle as a walking cane and it had become clogged with mud, and it explodes in his face. As he stumbles to his horse, Amelita guns him down, thus keeping her word. The film ends with her helping McNally walk.J.J. , a rising star in the black crime scene, is in the process of consolidating his power over the neighborhood. One of the only remaining obstacles is the white heroin cartel that is understandably reluctant to abandon such a lucrative market. Tensions rise, and an explosive confrontation is the result.J.D.  is a trucker from California. When he returns to his home he learns that an old friend of his was wasted by Sergeant Strode , a local policeman in a little town called "Texas City". He starts making inquiries about "Texas City", a revived but still dilapitated former ghost town, which has recently received town ordinances and privileges. Word is, "Texas City" has already a tradition of trapping truckers. Its policemen work the roads like modern robber-knights, led by a hypocritic drunkard who calls himself a judge. When his younger brother Billy  goes about his first solo run J.D. warns him to stay away from this town. But the unexperienced greenhorn is easily lured into a trap when a policeman from “Texas City” uses CB technology to pretend he was a trucker who just wants to help him. Billy is told he should avoid speed traps by choosing a different route which allegedly provides “a clean run”. Once Billy has left the main road he is game. “Texas City” police stops him and makes him believe he had to change his route again because of an accident. Thus he enters the territory of the greedy, corrupt “judge” Trimmings who rips him off by using threadbare pretences and arrests him. After Billy Dawes has vanished, his older brother, J.D. sets out in search of him. He goes to “Texas City” where he witnesses a city council meeting where Trimmings' stooges boast about their booties. Trimmings outlaws him and J.D. has to fight his way out. Even so, he has already befriended the waitress in the local diner. The single mother provides a refuge and J.D. shows he is an able step-father. Soon he takes a new approach and gets into fight with the owner of the local wrecking yard. He is blindsided, knocked out and thrown into a junk press. Still groggy he has to fight for dear life. Climbing out of the started press he kicks the yard owner who stumbles about his junk and hits the ground while falling down backwards. J.D., shocked by this accident, is arrested and sentenced to death by Trimmings. J.D.'s trucker friends hear about it by J.D.'s girl-friend who can access a CB radio station. They come to rescue him and simply tear the town down. J.D. can continue the search for his brother but he is hit by a stray bullet. He runs into Sergeant Strode while Strode is mistreating little Billy. Time has come for the final showdown between J.D. and the scourge of his friends, the evil Sergeant Strode.The film is less concerned with plot than behavior as a friendship develops between Bill Denny  and Charlie Waters  over their mutual love of gambling. Charlie is a wisecracking joker and experienced gambler constantly looking for the next score. Initially, Bill isn’t as committed a gambler  but he’s well on his way. As the film progresses and the two men hang out more, Bill starts to become more addicted to the gambling lifestyle. He goes into debt to his bookie, Sparkie . Eventually, Bill hocks some of his possessions to fund a trip to Reno, where Bill and Charlie pool their money to stake Bill in a poker game . Bill wins $18,000, but doesn't quit; he is convinced he is on a hot streak. He plays blackjack, then roulette and finally craps, winning more and more money, eventually cashing out $82,000. But something happens at the craps table. When he finally stops, he is drained, almost apathetic. After they split their winnings, he tells Charlie he's quitting and going home. Charlie doesn't understand it, but sees that his friend means what he says, and they go their separate ways.Lou Peckinpaugh , a bumbling San Francisco private detective, tries to prove himself innocent of his partner's murder while helping a bizarre array of characters recover a lost treasure. The film spoofs Casablanca, Maltese Falcon, Chinatown, A Streetcar Named Desire and To Have and Have Not.{{cite web}}Gus is a film about a football-kicking mule  and his trainer "Andy" . The film opens with a soccer game, and the Petrovic family watching their son Stepjan win the soccer game. Their other son Andy Petrovic works on his farm in Yugoslavia, and can't play soccer at all. A soccer ball is behind his mule, Gus. After saying that he never wants to see a soccer ball again, Gus kicks the soccer ball a long distance. Andy tries it with him and he says, "Oyage!" and Gus kicks the ball. Meanwhile, the California Atoms are a team that cannot do anything right. Debbie Kovac, a woman with Yugoslavian parents gets the Yugoslavian papers, and once Hank Cooper and Coach Venner find out about Gus, they want him over. So with that, Andy and Gus fly over to California and Gus' kicking of the football gets them to agree to let them join the team.Aging town constable Bob Valdez  is tricked into killing an innocent man by powerful rancher Frank Tanner , whose hired gun R.L. Davis  shot up the hovel where the wrongly accused man and his Indian wife were trapped. Valdez believes it would be a fair gesture to raise $200 for the widow, $100 from Tanner and the rest from others in town. Tanner is livid at the old man's suggestion. He orders ranch hand El Segundo  and his men to tie Valdez to a heavy wooden cross and drive him into the desert. The central pole is so long that Valdez must walk bent over. He finds an oasis blocked by two trees that he repeatedly tries to ram with the ends of the cross. When it finally breaks, the jagged ends are driven into Valdez's back. Davis finds him and cuts the ropes. The badly injured Valdez is able to crawl to the ranch of his friend Diego , where he is nursed back to health. Unfortunately for Tanner, he has picked on the wrong man -- Valdez is a wily, experienced Indian fighter and a marksman with a rifle. He dons his old cavalry uniform and sends Tanner a message via one of the rancher's wounded men: "Valdez is coming." Valdez sneaks into the compound and, during the ensuing gun battle and his escape, kidnaps Tanner's woman, Gay Erin , for whose favors it is rumored that Tanner had her husband killed. With her in restraints, Valdez proceeds to systematically do away with the men Tanner sends after him with his long-range Sharps rifle. The only one he shows mercy to is Davis, after the gunman screams, "I cut you loose! I cut you loose!" Now he has two hostages. While hiding from Tanner's posse, Valdez is informed by Gay Erin that it was she who killed her own husband in order to be with Tanner, not the other way around. He sets her free, but by now Tanner's woman is sympathetic to his cause. Valdez is finally surrounded and captured. Tanner and his men ride up. The men are ordered to shoot, but R.L. Davis begs off, and El Segundo calls his men aside, refusing to obey orders. That leaves Tanner to do his own dirty work -- if he can. Tanner turns out to be a coward one-on-one. Valdez tells him he should have paid the $100.The story is of the rise and fall of the infamous Chicago gangster Al Capone and the control he exhibited over the city during the prohibition years. Starting in 1901, he hangs out with other gangs until he is found by gangsters Johnny Torrio  and Frankie Yale . Then he pushes his way into the Chicago Underworld, battling mobsters Hymie Weiss and George "Bugs" Moran, and romancing flapper Iris Crawford . Sylvester Stallone plays his ambitious bodyguard Frank "The Enforcer" Nitti. Later, in the wake of the St. Valentine's Day Massacre and tax evasion, he is sent to jail, mainly for the later infraction, where he falls sick from syphilis and dies in 1947.The movie picks up directly after the end of Rescue From Gilligan's Island. The castaways are once again stranded on the same island that they had been on for so many years. The storm has contaminated all of the underground springs, and they are desperately searching for fresh water. Gilligan stumbles upon a couple of planes that are hidden in the jungle that they had somehow managed to overlook during all their time on the island. It is revealed that the island was a base of operations for the Army Air Corps during World War II, and the hangar was abandoned and overgrown by jungle brush. The tidal wave destroyed the foliage and exposed the hangar. The Professor believes that he can combine the two planes into one and fly them all back to civilization. He succeeds in cobbling together an airworthy plane and, dubbing it Minnow III, they head back. This occurs despite the fact that in the original series it is established that the Professor cannot fly a plane in not one but two different episodes with the character Wrongway Feldman. However, during the attempt to fly back to Hawaii, the plane has engine trouble. The professor orders Gilligan to jettison some weight, and in doing so, Gilligan falls out and has to parachute down to the island. Against their better judgment, the gang decides to return to the island to get him. They find him stuck in a tree. After a little while, the engines of the plane fall off. Fortunately for them, the engines collapse after they land, meaning that although they are still stuck on the island, going back to get Gilligan saved them from plummeting to their deaths as the engines would have fallen off in midair. But now they are dismayed because the plane was their last hope of rescue. Their despair is quickly dispelled when a U.S. Navy captain appears saying that their plane was detected on radar long enough for them to follow it to the island. The castaways are once again returned to civilization and to ensure that Gilligan's Island gets charted, the U.S. government pinpoints the location of the island to prevent future castaway incidents. This closed the first half of the two-part episode/movie. The second half — which was originally intended as a pilot for a Love Boat type of weekly series — picks up a year later, with the island now a tropical resort fully linked to civilization and owned by Mr. Howell . The rest of the castaways work as the staff of the resort. Gilligan and the Skipper deal with being unable to locate the parents of a boy , only to find that the child has run away from his parents to get away from their constant pressure on him to excel in athletics and in school. Meanwhile, Henry Elliot  is a workaholic whose wife  is trying to get him to relax and forget about work.An American space satellite lands in an uninhabited area of the Pacific. To resolve a dispute that threatens to escalate into all-out war, the United States and an unnamed Asian country agree to settle the matter with a duel to the death between two champions on a deserted tropical island. As Vietnam veteran Jacob Gallery   and Yuro  stalk each other, a bond of respect forms between them. However, both countries cheat, each covertly sending a second man. Outraged, Gallery and Yuro eliminate their backups and continue with their deadly contest. In the end, Gallery emerges victorious, but before he can signal the outcome, he succumbs to his wounds.George  is taking a trip from his antique shop in Manchester to the Lake District to work on a new house with some of his friends. On the way, his Norton motorcycle is accidentally damaged by Edna  while reversing her Mini Cooper at a petrol station. He demands she give him a lift to his destination, while Edna, on her way to visit her troubled sister, asks to go to South Gate first, and to let George take her car to Windermere where she will later retrieve it. George agrees, but the two come to a dead end road alongside a river while searching for Edna's sister's house. George crosses the river on foot to a farm where several men from the Department of Agriculture are using an experimental machine in a field. While asking for directions, he inquires about their machinery, which they explain is designed to kill insects through ultra-sonic radiation. Meanwhile, while Edna waits at the car, she is attacked by a man who emerges from the river, but he disappears after she reaches George. Night falls, and Edna's drug addict sister, Katie West , is getting into argument with her photographer husband, Martin  about her sister's impending arrival. Martin goes down to a waterfall near their remote cottage to take photographs, and Katie is attacked by the same man whom Edna had encountered earlier. Katie runs to the waterfall to get Martin, where the man kills him. Katie frantically runs up the hill back to the cottage, where Edna and George have just arrived. When the three report the death, the aggressive police sergeant thinks that Katie did it. George, forced to stay in South Gate, secretly takes the roll of film from Martin's camera to a local chemist to have it developed. Meanwhile, they book into the Old Owl Hotel. Katie has a breakdown and is hospitalised. At the hospital, it turns out that babies are affected too, biting people with homicidal intensity. Back at the chemist's, they collect the photos, but the dead man does not appear in any of the pictures; the man, it turns out, is a local vagrant who drowned in the river. The sergeant arrives and takes photos and, when the couple leaves, sends one of his officers, PC Craig , to trail them, but he loses them. They go to the graveyard and in a room in the chapel find a half-eaten meal. Following noises to a crypt, they come across a murdered man and are locked in by the vagrant zombie, who brings the other bodies to life by touching their eyes with his blood-stained fingers. The pair manages to make a hole they can escape from and Edna does, only to find herself in a pit while the zombies have hold of George's feet. Meanwhile PC Craig turns up and helps Edna out of the pit. George manages to get free and follows them, with the zombies chasing all three of them. They lock themselves in a room but are trapped there, and Craig soon finds that his gun is of no use against the zombies. He makes a dash for the police radio he has dropped outside but is caught by the zombies who tear his chest apart and eviscerate him, and begin eating his organs. The dead break into their room and in desperation George throws a lit oil lamp at them. It smashes and the zombies quickly burst into flame. The two escape to their car and Edna is sent off to tell the police. George plans to use the unmarked police car to go and smash the machine but it has no key so he runs off. At the machine, the farmer and two machine men do not believe George and reveal that the machine is now working up to a five miles radius. They try to stop him, but he smashes the machine and they drive off to get away from "the mad man". The sergeant has found Craig and the caretaker's bodies, and thinking they may be devil worshippers, issues orders "to shoot to kill" George and Edna. He is then told that George has deliberately wrecked the machine. Edna has arrived at her brother-in-law's farm only to be met by Martin, who is now a zombie, but she manages to run over him as she escapes. George finds her, drops her off at a petrol station and drives off with a large can of petrol. George is caught in a police trap and Martin's body is taken back to the hospital. In a field, the machine is repaired and switched on again, which brings to life a number of bodies in the nearby morgue. George escapes in a police car and finds Edna has been taken to the hospital, where the local morgue is. She is being sedated while George is now being chased by the police as he drives to the hospital where the zombies are now killing people, including Katie who as a zombie tries to kill her sister. George arrives and starts setting fire to zombies but it turns out that he was too late to save Edna and as she suddenly attacks him, he pushes her into a room, which is now burning. George is then shot four times by the over-zealous police sergeant. Everything is over as far as he is concerned now and the sergeant heads to a room at the hotel in South Gate for the night. After shooting him down in cold blood, the sergeant wishes he would come alive again so he could shoot him again. He gets his wish as zombie George is waiting for him in his room, but now bullets won't stop him. In a field nearby, the machine continues working.Placed behind bars during the war, Diego Callahan, also known as "Macho," travels to Texas looking for the man responsible for his imprisonment. He quarrels with a one-armed Army colonel named Mountford and kills him, observed by Alexandra, the officer's wife. Vowing vengeance, she immediately puts a $1,000 bounty on Callahan's head. Seeking his own kind of revenge, Callahan locates the man he's looking for, Duffy, and hangs him from a windmill. Harry Wheeler agrees to hire a team of bounty hunters and give chase. Alexandra also sets out in pursuit, only to have Callahan overpower and rape her. For reasons of her own, the woman now loves Callahan, but it is too late. Wheeler's men are determined to collect that reward, and Callahan finds that he can't kill them all.A financially strained, aging private detective named Ira Wells isn't a well man and is barely active in the business. He is a loner who doesn't much care for company or small talk. When his ex-partner Harry Regan, however, shows up at Ira's boarding house one night mortally wounded while on a case, Ira feels it's up to him to get to the bottom of it. The trail leads Ira to a small-time fence named Birdwell, whose young bodyguard Lamar is only too happy to rough up the old man when Ira pays a call. But they make a mistake in intimidating and underestimating Ira, who ends up paying Lamar back in kind as well as tracking down Birdwell's missing wife. Meanwhile, a would-be client named Margo Sperling is introduced to Ira by a mutual acquaintance, Charlie Hatter, a tipster. Margo is a quirky individual who acts as an agent for a singer, sells marijuana on the side and wants to hire Ira to find not a murderer but just her missing cat. As they get to know each other after a rocky start, Ira and Margo hit it off to the point that she offers to become his new partner. But first they need to deal with a dangerous confrontation in Margo's apartment. allmovie ((Clay Lomax gets out of prison after serving nearly eight years. He goes looking for Sam Foley, a bank robber who shot Lomax in the back and left him to take the rap. Foley has a trio of hired guns, Bobby Jay Jones being the fastest and most vicious. Lomax offers an old friend, Trooper, all the money he has in the world, $200, for the name of the town where Foley can be found. A woman named Teresa Ortega has been keeping Lomax's money for him, so he sends for her. When the train arrives, a girl of age 6 called Decky gets off. Lomax learns that Teresa is dead and believes Decky could be his own child. He can't find anyone to look out for her, so Decky accompanies him on the search. Trooper is killed by Foley's men, but with his dying words reveals that Gun Hill is where Lomax needs to go. A woman named Juliana offers shelter to Lomax and the little girl. Jones and his men arrive and take them prisoner. To amuse himself, Jones shoots objects, ala William Tell, off the child's head. Jones shoots one of his partners by mistake, flees, then kills the other. He goes to Foley for his money, but when Foley draws a gun from the safe, Jones is too quick and kills him. Jones is enjoying his money when Lomax gets the drop on him. Lomax forces him to place various objects on his head and shoots them off. In the end, he makes Jones prove just how fast he is supposed to be. Jones is forced to place a cartridge atop his head. He tries to outdraw Lomax but can't and he is shot dead. A relieved Lomax rides back to Juliana and Decky to begin a new life.In 1973 reporter Carl Kolchak , now in Seattle, Washington  is hired by his old editor, Tony Vincenzo assigned to the story of a series of killings, in which the victims, all exotic dancers, are strangled, their necks crushed, then drained of a few ounces of blood. Researcher Titus Barry discovers that there was a similar rash of killings in 1952, setting Kolchak on the trail of another unbelievable story. Kolchak investigates further murders, but is stonewalled by the police, wanting to have certain details of the murders kept secret. Out of 'burning curiousity' Barry researches further back and he learns of another series of murders in 1931; Kolchak notes that it is twenty-one years from 1973 to 1952 and another twenty-one years from 1952 to 1931; together they look further back to 1910 and discover another series of murders; it turns out that they have been occurring every twenty-one years since 1889. Kolchak discovers that every series of murders took place over a period of eighteen days; after further investigation it seems the killer needs the blood for a kind of elixir of life which keeps him alive for twenty-one years at a time. Of course no one believes Kolchak, and the powers that be want to silence him. Mr. Barry uncovers further clues in an old interview with Mark Twain and a vital clue leading a Dr. Richard Malcolm, a surgeon in the Union Army during the Civil War who was one of the original staff at the Westside Mercy Hospital. Though the hospital is long gone, Kolchak goes to the clinic standing on the site, in the hopes thy might have the hospital's old records, but he finds something far more important just inside the front door: a painting of the clinic's founder, a Dr. Malcolm Richards, who is the spitting image of Richard Malcolm. Kolchak calls Barry to meet him there, and proceeds to alter the painting to make the similarity more obvious; Mr. Barry is amazed, but the police are less than impressed and Kolchak is arrested. Finally, Kolchak and Barry convince the police  of the facts: that the killer really is practically immortal, and that he will kill again. But the story is once again suppressed. The killer gain his last victim and Kolchak enters into a race against time to stop the killer before he is able to complete the creation of his elixir and disappear for another twenty-one years.The film opens on Stewart Graff  jogging underneath the Hollywood sign. Back home, as he finishes his workout on a resistance machine, his wife Remy Royce-Graf  starts her morning by picking a fight with him. At the peak of their argument, Stewart says to Remy, "You'd hardly call this a marriage wouldn't you?" After he has showered and is preparing to leave, Stewart finds Remy unconscious with a bottle of pills nearby. Accustomed to her periodic suicide attempts, Stewart prepares to induce vomiting when a violent tremor shakes the bedroom. Remy bolts out of bed, revealing that she was faking. Meanwhile, at the Mulholland Dam, two workers begin a routine inspection of the structure in response to the tremor. One of them is drowned in an elevator shaft which has filled with water after the quake. In downtown Hollywood, Sgt. Lou Slade  and his partner Emilio Chavez are in pursuit of a suspect. They chase him out of their jurisdiction, finally crashing into the hedges at Zsa Zsa Gabor's house. After an LA County Sherriff yells at Lou for ruining Gabor's hedges, Lou punches him out. When reprimanded, Lou explains to his supervisor that the suspect had stolen the car, gotten stoned, and then driven over a 6-year old Mexican girl without stopping. To his disgust, he receives a temporary suspension. On his way to work, Stewart visits Denise Marshall , an actress who is the widow of one of his friends and co-workers. He drops off an autographed football for her son Corry  and helps Denise run her lines for a scene she is shooting later that day. A junior staffer, Walter Russell , at the California Seismological Institute has calculated that Los Angeles will suffer a major earthquake in the next day or two. He frantically tries to reach his superior, Dr. Frank Adams, who is busy placing seismic sensors in the field. Another tremor hits as Adams and his assistant are working in a deep trench and they are buried alive. The scientists at the center argue about whether or not to go public with their prediction of a major quake. The acting supervisor, Dr. Willis Stockle , insists that if they are wrong their funding will be jeopardized. He also argues that the panic such a warning would cause could be worse than the earthquake itself. They agree on a compromise to alert the National Guard and police so that they can at least mobilize to help deal with the fallout. While checking out at a grocery store, Rosa Amici  realizes she does not have enough money to pay for all her items. Jody Joad , the seemingly kind store manager, insists that she keep the items and make up the deficit the next time she shops. Later, when he hears that the National Guard reserves are being called up on the radio, Jody leaves the store in the middle of his shift, revealing himself to be part of the reserve army. He goes to his run-down boarding house and changes into his NCO uniform, enduring the abuse and harassment of his bullying housemates who accuse him of being homosexual because he's got pictures of bodybuilders on his wall. Blowing off steam at a bar, Lou orders a double bourbon and ignores all the illegal activity he sees. A drunk  periodically wakes up to toast random people like 'Bobby Riggs'. Daredevil motorcyclist Miles Quade  arrives with his partner Sal Amici  and his sister Rosa. A pool shark collects $50 that Miles owes him, leaving him short for the propane tank he needs to do a stunt for a talent scout. Miles convinces Lou to loan him the money by having Rosa reveal a tight-fitting t-shirt he's marketing with his name on it. The tremor cancelled Denise's shoot; so, she heads to Stewart's office, pretending to meet with a friend. When she runs into him, he is headed out for a drink. They go back to Denise's house for the drink and end up making love. He promises to come back later that night and invites her and Corry to spend the summer with him in Oregon, where he will be overseeing a project. Back at the office, his boss and father in-law Sam Royce  offers to hand over the company presidency to Stewart. He asks for some time to consider the idea. Stewart calls Denise and breaks off their plans for later that night. He goes to Sam's office to accept his offer but is stunned to see Remy there. He assumes she has convinced her father, Sam, to offer the promotion to Stewart in order to save their marriage. He storms out and she follows him, accusing him of cheating with Denise. He explains that he never had until that day. When the the couple get outside the building, the main earthquake occurs, destroying much of Los Angeles and killing thousands while shaking Southern California for six to nine minutes  of film time. Bizarrely, the sequence includes a shot of one of the characters watching High Plains Drifter in which Clint Eastwood is spun around in the barber's chair, shooting dead three men. After the quake is over, Sam and most of his employees find themselves trapped on the upper floors of their 30-story skyscraper, as the elevators have crashed to the ground. They descend most of the way by the stairs, but the earthquake has collapsed part of the stairwell, leaving an gap of about two stories. Sam rigs a fire hose to a chair and lowers his staff down one at a time. When everyone is safe, he suffers a heart attack and Stewart climbs up to lower him down in the chair. Denise's son, meanwhile, has been caught on a bridge over a spillway. She spies him unconscious on the concrete and climbs down to save him. Unable to climb back out with her son, she hails Miles and Sal who are passing by in their truck. After saving Denise and her son, they drive in search of help, coming across Lou who is organizing rescue efforts in the street. Lou commandeers their truck to use it as an ambulance. After nibbling on a donut in a ruined diner, Rosa has been arrested by the National Guard for looting. Jody, now a sergeant, picks her out of a group of prisoners. Recognizing him from the grocery store, Rosa assumes he is going to let her go, but he claims that the streets are too unsafe for her to go anywhere and he orders her to stay inside a secluded store. Another group of troops arrive with Jody's housemates as prisoners. Jody executes them in an act of revenge for all the long time bullying he endured from them, terrifying Rosa and his subordinates as they now see his dark psychopathic side. Once Stewart gets everyone safely from his office to a shopping center named Wilson Plaza, now converted into a triage center, he goes off in search of Denise and her son. Sam is taken to Dr. Jim Vance , but he does not survive. Stewart ends up driving Lou around in search of survivors and they come across Jody and his regiment. Jody threatens to fire on them if they come any closer and Rosa emerges when she sees Lou, begging for his help. Lou and Stewart pretend to comply with Jody by driving off while Sgt. Joad's scared men look for an officer to have him face a court martial and detainment. But Lou sneaks back and gets the jump on Jody, who's enraged at Rosa for betraying and rejecting him and tries to rape her. Lou shoots Jody dead in self-defense when Jody tries to kill him with his rifle and rescues Rosa. As they drive away, they hear that another aftershock has destroyed Wilson Plaza. After a quick survey of the building, Stewart realizes there are survivors trapped in an underground garage three stories below ground. He and Lou crawl into the sewer and through some rubble with a jackhammer, which they use to drill through to the garage. Stewart is overjoyed to find Denise, who is one of the people trapped inside. As he hugs her, he sees his wife standing just behind her. During the rescue, the Mulholland Dam finally gives way, sending water down the sewers. Lou and Denise make it up the ladder to safety, but as Remy climbs out, a man steps on her hand. She falls back into the water which is sweeping people away. Stewart looks up at Denise, but he cannot bring himself to abandon his wife to death. He sacrifices himself when he swims after her and both of them are swept away along with many others. Denise walks away from the manhole in shock and grief. Lou is holding Rosa when a doctor walks up to him and says, "This used to be a helluva town, officer." Lou mumbles, "Yeah" as he tries not to cry. The camera pans back to reveal a completely destroyed Los Angeles.Art professor and mountaineer Dr. Jonathan Hemlock  is a retired government assassin called on to return to work for two more "sanctions", a euphemism for officially approved killings. During his career with a secret government agency called "C2", Hemlock amassed a private collection of 21 rare masterpiece paintings, paid for from his previous sanctions. The director of C2, Mr. Dragon , is an albino ex-Nazi confined to semi-darkness and kept alive by blood transfusions. Dragon wants Hemlock to kill two men responsible for the death of another government agent, codename Wormwood. Insisting he is retired, Hemlock refuses until Dragon threatens to expose Hemlock's art collection to the IRS. Hemlock agrees, and he travels to Zurich and carries out the first sanction for $20,000, twice his usual fee, and a letter guaranteeing no trouble from the IRS. Returning from Europe, Hemlock meets C2 courier Jemima Brown , who seduces him and steals his money and IRS exemption letter. Dragon agrees to return them if Hemlock completes another assassination. Hemlock is reluctant, but agrees when he learns that the C2 agent killed, Wormwood, was in fact an old friend of his named Henri Baq . He demands $100,000 plus expenses. He is told the target is a member of an international mountain climbing team which in the summer will ascend the north face of the Eiger in Switzerland. Hemlock will be the American member of the team, and must kill one of the climbers—C2 is unsure of the target's identity, and Hemlock is only told that the man walks with a limp. Hemlock travels to Arizona to train at a climbing school run by a friend, Ben Bowman , who whips him back into shape with the help of an attractive Native American woman called George . Hemlock also encounters an enemy, Miles Mellough , a former ally from the military who betrayed him in Southeast Asia. He tries to kill Hemlock by hiring George to drug him, but Hemlock survives. Later he lures him and his bodyguard into the desert, where he shoots the bodyguard and leaves Mellough to die in the sun. Hemlock travels to Switzerland with Bowman, the "ground man" or supervisor of the climb, and meets the other members of the climbing party at the Hotel Bellevue des Alpes at Kleine Scheidegg. After a brief conflict within the climbing team, mainly due to the headstrong German member, Karl Freytag , the men begin their ascent of the Eiger North Face in poor weather conditions. The French climber is struck by falling rocks and dies. With Hemlock now leading, the surviving members retreat towards a tunnel window that connects to a railroad station inside the mountain, carrying the dead climber between them. At the last moment, Freytag and the Austrian Anderl Meyer  fall to their deaths when their anchors come loose. Hemlock is saved, dangling alone a few meters from the tunnel window. Bowman and a rescue crew make their way through the Eiger to the tunnel window, where they attempt to throw a rope to Hemlock. Hemlock notices Bowman is limping, a sign that identifies him as Hemlock's target. Hemlock says, "You're limping, Ben," reluctant to trust that Bowman will rescue him. Bowman throws him the rope, and Hemlock attaches it, then reluctantly cuts his own rope. He falls onto Bowman's rope, and is pulled into the tunnel to safety. On the train back to Kleine Scheidegg, Bowman admits he became involved with "the other side" years earlier and had no idea there would be a killing. Bowman admits he had become involved with Miles Mellough because he owed a debt to him, that he had gotten his daughter George off drugs. Back at Kleine Scheidegg, Hemlock is approached by Bowman, who looks to mend his relationship with the assassin—wondering if he still counts Bowman among his "friends". After Hemlock is rejoined by Jemima Brown, he takes a phone call from Dragon who assumes Hemlock killed all three of the other climbers intentionally, to ensure he killed the target. Jemima wonders if Dragon is correct.In London, a golden bullet with James Bond's code "007" etched into its surface is received by MI6. It is believed that it was sent by famed assassin Francisco Scaramanga, who uses a golden gun, to intimidate the agent. Because of the perceived threat to the agent's life, M relieves Bond of a mission revolving around the work of a scientist named Gibson, thought to be in possession of information crucial to solving the energy crisis with solar power. Bond sets out unofficially to find Scaramanga. After retrieving a spent golden bullet from a belly dancer in Beirut and tracking its manufacturer to Macau, Bond sees Andrea Anders, Scaramanga's mistress, collecting golden bullets at a casino. Bond follows her to Hong Kong and in her Peninsula Hotel room pressures her to tell him about Scaramanga, his appearance and his plans; she directs him to the Bottoms Up Club. The club proves to be the location of Scaramanga's next 'hit', Gibson, from which Scaramanga's dwarf henchman Nick Nack steals the "Solex agitator", a key component of a solar power station. Before Bond can assert his innocence, however, Lieutenant Hip escorts him away from the scene, taking him to meet M and Q in a hidden headquarters in the wreck of the {{RMS}} in the harbour. M assigns 007 to retrieve the Solex agitator and assassinate Scaramanga. Bond then travels to Bangkok to meet Hai Fat, a wealthy Thai entrepreneur suspected of arranging Gibson's murder. Bond poses as Scaramanga, but his plan backfires because Scaramanga himself is being hosted at Hai Fat's estate. Bond is captured and placed in Fat's dojo, where the fighters are instructed to kill him. After escaping with the aid of Lt. Hip and his nieces, Bond speeds away on a khlong along the river and reunites with his British assistant Mary Goodnight. Hai Fat is subsequently killed by Scaramanga, who replaces Fat as the "new Chairman of the board" and takes the Solex. Anders visits Bond, revealing that she had sent the bullet to London and wants Bond to kill Scaramanga. In payment, she promises to hand the Solex over to him at a boxing venue the next day. At the match, Bond discovers Anders dead and meets Scaramanga. Bond spots the Solex on the floor and is able to smuggle it away to Hip, who passes it to Goodnight. Attempting to place a homing device on Scaramanga's car, she is locked into the vehicle's boot. Bond sees Scaramanga driving away and steals a showroom car to give chase, coincidentally with Sheriff J.W. Pepper seated within it. Bond and Pepper follow Scaramanga in a car chase across Bangkok, which concludes when Scaramanga's car transforms into a plane, which flies him, Nick Nack and Goodnight to his private island. Picking up Goodnight's tracking device, Bond flies a seaplane into Red Chinese waters, under the Chinese radar, and lands at Scaramanga's island. On arriving, Bond is welcomed by Scaramanga, who shows him the high-tech solar power plant he has taken over, the technology for which he intends to sell to the highest bidder. Whilst demonstrating the equipment, Scaramanga uses a powerful solar beam to destroy Bond's plane. Scaramanga then proposes a pistol duel with Bond on the beach; the two men later stand back to back and are ordered by Nick Nack to take twenty paces, but when Bond turns and fires, Scaramanga has vanished. Nick Nack leads Bond into Scaramanga's Funhouse where Bond poses as a mannequin of himself while Scaramanga walks by, taking him by surprise and killing him. Goodnight, in waylaying a Scaramanga henchman into a pool of liquid helium, upsets the balance of the solar plant, which begins to go out of control. Bond retrieves the Solex unit just before the island explodes, and they escape unharmed in Scaramanga's Chinese junk, later subduing Nick Nack who challenges them having smuggled himself aboard.Wendell Scott, a taxi cab driver in post-World War II, learns his craft for car racing by transporting illegal moonshine in the backwoods of Virginia. By the mid-1960s, he was a veteran driver who had won his battles with the white racetrack owners and police officers.Without warning, an alien spaceship attacks a Japanese moon base. Back on Earth, young Kenichi Wallace; his father, Dr. Tom Wallace; his friend Helen; and her father, Dr. Yosuke Ishikawa, witness the spaceship descending into the ocean. They go to investigate but are soon captured by a teleportation beam that brings them aboard the spaceship. Here, a human-looking woman appears to them and reveals that she is of a race called Zigra. By way of demonstrating Zigran technological prowess, she creates a gigantic earthquake that wreaks havoc on Japan. She then tells her prisoners of Zigra's history and its great scientific advances—which, unfortunately, have resulted in the destruction of the planet; but in searching for a new home, Zigra has found Earth. The woman contacts authorities on Earth and orders them to surrender or she will kill her prisoners. Tom declares that the Zigran woman is insane, and, in anger, she sends the two men into a hypnotic trance. Kenny and Helen take action, successfully using the ship's control console to escape. Enraged, the Zigran overlord—a strange, shark-like being—orders the woman to go to Earth and kill the children. She says it would be simpler to kill all the people of Japan, but the great Zigra tells her that humans must be preserved so they can be used for food. Now, Gamera, intent on discovering the identity of the alien interloper, flies in to save the day and rescues the children and their fathers. The UN authorities, after questioning Kenichi and Helen, resolve to attack Zigra. The Defense Force jets scramble, but the Zigran spaceship makes short work of them with its powerful lasers. The alien woman, disguised as a normal human, arrives on earth and begins her search for Kenny and Helen. She hitches a ride with the Sea World dolphin trainer back to the facility, which the military is now using as its center of operations. She finds the two children, but before she can catch them, they call out for Gamera, who obediently appears. Gamera begins an underwater assault on the Zigran spaceship—which, when hit with Gamera's fire-jet, transforms into the giant shark-like monster. Zigra grows larger and larger, and finally halts the heroic turtle with a ray that suspends its cell activity. Enervated, Gamera sinks into the sea. Back at Sea World, the dolphin trainer and the facility's scientists discover a way to break the alien's hypnotic control with sonic waves. Thus, they manage to disable the Zigra woman, only to learn that she is actually a woman named Lora Lee, who had been in a moon rover during the initial lunar attack and was captured and used by Zigra. Drs. Wallace and Ishikawa employ a bathyscaph in an attempt to wake Gamera, only to find that Kenichi and Helen have stowed away on board. Zigra suddenly attacks them and again demands the immediate surrender of the earth or it will destroy the bathyscaph. The UN commander reluctantly agrees to the alien's terms. An electrical storm approaches the bay, and a bolt of lightning revives Gamera, who snatches the bathyscaph from Zigra and returns it to the surface. Gamera and Zigra face off a final time, and Zigra, using its superior versatility underwater, slices Gamera's chest with its blade-like dorsal fin. Gamera takes hold of Zigra, flies into the air, and then drops at high speed, slamming the alien monster against the earth. Gamera further incapacitates Zigra by jamming a boulder over its fin, pinning it to the ground. Gamera grabs another boulder and uses it, like a hammer on a xylophone, to play the Gamera theme on Zigra's dorsal fins. Finally, Gamera ends Zigra's existence by setting its body on fire, reducing it to ash in a massive conflagration.The story follows a group of six teenaged boys, who share a cabin at a residential summer camp in the western mountains. Each of the boys is a misfit in one way or another; the group is ostracized by the other boys at the camp, and form a bond based, in part, on this broader social isolation. After being taken on a field trip to see a captured herd of bison that is being slaughtered by local hunters, the boys resolve to sneak away from the camp and set the penned bison free. The film is presented partially out of sequence; the primary narrative of freeing the bison is interspersed with flashback scenes showing the boys' troubled lives both at the camp, and at their homes.Set in Hamburg, West Germany, several criminals take advantage of the German bank privacy laws to use safe deposit boxes in a German bank to store large amounts of illicit cash. These include a Las Vegas mobster as well as a ruthless drug smuggler known as the Candy Man and a crooked overbearing U.S. Army sergeant and his meek-mannered partner the Major, who conspire on a big heroin and LSD smuggling score. Joe Collins , an American bank security consultant, has been spying on them and makes mysterious and elaborate preparations to steal their money  with the help of Dawn Divine , a hooker with a heart of gold. Joe has Dawn phone in a bomb threat to the bank president, Mr. Kessel, to create a diversion. Joe locks himself inside the bank vault with a gold bar normally displayed in the lobby to supposedly save it. The bank is closed and evacuated while Joe uses duplicate keys to empty the criminals' three safe deposit boxes into Dawn's large-size deposit box.  Despite the fact that Kessel insists on burning through the wall to rescue Joe instead of waiting for the time lock to open, Joe succeeds in the heist and is hailed as a hero for "preventing" the robbery of the gold bar. The next day, the three criminals, one by one, discover that their boxes are empty and they cannot complete their schemes or go to the police to report the thief. The Las Vegas mobster flees the country while the others  search Dawn Divine's apartment—as she was their common link—and find clues that connect her to Joe. Sarge calls Kessel to get Joe's home address, but Joe is quickly tipped off by Kessel and he hurriedly sends Dawn to the train station with a suitcase packed with her take—$765,000—promising to meet her later someplace out of the country. A long climatic chase begins as Dawn gives the Major the slip at the train station while the Candy Man and the Sarge chase Joe across a rail yard and through the Elbe Tunnel. Joe escapes on a car carrier truck, lugging his suitcase, but the Candy Man and the Sarge follow and catch up in the morning at a frozen lake in the countryside, where the Candy Man crashes a car through the ice and drowns. Joe escapes again by hopping a train, but during the night the Sarge catches up to him—only to find that Joe's suitcase contains nothing but a bottle of champagne and wads of newspaper. They conclude that Dawn double-crossed Joe by repacking the suitcases while he was getting the car, and the Sarge proposes a plan to Joe to go after Dawn together. But, upon drinking a swallow of the champagne, the Sarge instantly goes into violent convulsions and falls down dead. The bottle was one of three that the Candy Man had filled with a solution of concentrated LSD to sneak them through customs earlier in the film. An epilog shows Dawn in a sunny climate in the USA, joyfully driving a gleaming new yellow Corvette, and then later cuddling in bed with an unseen someone. The other suitcase is sitting near the bed, and Joe's bomber jacket hangs on the coat rack. Dawn smugly explains to Joe that she was certain the criminals wouldn't kill him and leave themselves with no way to get the money.The film depicts a future in which human beings, known as "Oms" , are creatures on the Draags' home planet, where they are seen as pests and sometimes kept as pets . The Draags are an alien species which is humanoid in shape but a hundred times larger than humans, with blue skin, fan-like earlobes and huge, protruding red eyes. The Draags also live much longer than human beings – one Draag week equals a human year. Some Oms are domesticated as pets, but others run wild, and are periodically exterminated. The Draags' treatment of the Oms is ironically contrasted with their high level of technological and spiritual development. The story opens with a woman running, occasionally looking behind her as if pursued. An enormous hand descends and blocks her way. She runs back the way she came and finds her way blocked by another hand. It becomes apparent that she is being toyed with by entities that do not appreciate her fragility, and as she dies, the infant she has been carrying and attempting to protect begins to cry. The view changes to reveal the Draag children who have accidentally killed the woman; they leave quickly when an adult Draag and child approach. The child voices concern for the orphaned infant, and the two take the child to their home. Tiva  names the infant Terr . Her father, whom the adult Terr voice-over explains is master Sinh, the Draag great Aedile, attaches a collar capable of physically dragging Terr back from mischief, and over the next several scenes, their relationships develop. Terr witnesses the parents seemingly ingesting food by inhaling it from a device. After changing Terr's costume as one would a doll's, Tiva uses makeup to give herself a more Om-like appearance. When Terr impishly trades dark pigment for light, Tiva blows some of the powder on him. Tiva uses a tiny indoor weather-maker to cause a small storm cloud to form over Terr and chase him around the dwelling. Tiva takes Terr for a walk, and then teaches him how, under certain circumstances, crystals will form on stationary objects, including standing bipeds. She also teaches him that whistling will shatter the crystals. Terr happens upon master Sinh as he and several compatriots are melding in a ritual, and it is revealed that many Draag children have Oms like Terr when they convene to watch their respective Oms interact. Tiva's education is supplied by the use of a headset that transmits knowledge directly into the brain of the user. Because she enjoys having Terr in her hand when she is having her "infos," Terr begins to acquire their knowledge. Meanwhile, at the seat of government, Draag Councilors discuss whether the regular extermination of the wild Oms is sufficient to keep their numbers at an acceptable level. It is revealed that Oms were first found on a planet that retained some evidence of structured life, but the images seem to reveal that Earth was in a post-apocalyptic state at the time. Terr decides to escape, and to take the headset with him. He does not get very far before Tiva realizes he is missing, and her mother tells her to use her bracelet to bring him back. Terr finds himself suddenly being dragged backward by the collar. Only the headset becoming entangled in plants allows a wild female Om to come to his rescue before he is choked by the collar or dragged all the way back. When Terr explains that the headset contains the knowledge of the Draags but he doesn't know where to go with it, his unnamed rescuer takes him to her tribe, who live in a tree in a walled park. When it is demonstrated that Terr can read Draag script, the leader  is willing to accept Terr into the tribe, but the Wizard is not, and demands a trial by combat – to the death. Terr and the Wizard's champion have child-sized animals bound to their torsos in such a way as to prevent the combatants from using anything but the beaks of said animals to attack. Terr is injured, but wins the trial. Over the next several scenes, it is shown how the Oms have adapted to life on the Draags' planet. Snail-like animals weave clothes onto the Oms, predators that would eat Oms are in turn hunted and efficiently stripped of useful materials, and the gene pool is kept well-mixed. Oms even make the occasional foray into Draag areas in search of resources. Returning from one such expedition, the group of adventurers is accosted by bandits who drop clawlike harpoons into the cargo and simply lift it up into their own tree. Mighty One tells Terr that they live on the other side of the park, and cautions him that they are evil. When the now-literate Oms read the new sign on one of the walls, they realize the park is about to be "de-Omised." Terr decides that he must take this information to the tribe of bandits, and is quickly captured and taken before their leader, a wizened old woman. The woman is skeptical of his claims and orders Terr's imprisonment. When the de-Omising begins, however, the old woman returns and frees him. The de-Omising is accomplished using disks that release a poison gas. A great many Oms perish from this gas, but a sizable number still manage to escape through a crack in the park wall. Two passing Draags witness the exodus, and one begins crushing the Oms underfoot. The Oms retaliate and manage to kill their attacker while the other escapes. Afterward, Mighty one is revealed to be killed and the old woman leads the survivors to a place where she believes they will be safe. The death of a Draag puts the Council in an uproar. De-Omising is stepped up to a much higher priority, new technologies are developed, and extermination frequency is scheduled to greatly increase. The old woman has led the two now-united tribes to an old rocket depot. Applying their newfound knowledge, the Oms, under Terr's direction, very quickly adapt the abandoned technologies to their own purposes and begin to flourish, thanks to the rebirth of mechanized industry. On a visit to the old woman, Terr's wife hears her express both optimism and regret that she will not live to see the Oms finally find peace. Fatalities resulting from Draag attempts to de-Om the rocket depot are minimized by the creation and organized use of shelters, but the Draags' updated de-Omising technologies become ever more aggressive, and when an automated scout detects the persistent Om settlement, it summons an array of lethal devices. As the attacks become more diverse and effective, the Oms launch their manned rockets toward the Fantastic Planet, where they discover headless humanoid statues. As Draag meditation bubbles descend to alight atop the statues, the statues begin to dance. It is revealed via Terr's voiceover that this is the secret of the Fantastic Planet. Draag meditation animates the statues and allows the Draag to reproduce. When the feet of the dancing statues threaten the rockets, the Oms use energy weapons to shatter the statues, effectively killing thousands of meditative Draag. Pandemonium reigns in the Council chamber, for it seems the two species will destroy one another if they cannot find a way to live together. Apparently they do just that, for in the very next scene, an Om steps down off an outstretched Draag hand, removes his silly hat and assumes a posture of confidence and self-assertion. The headset voice dispassionately recounts the Om's construction of a new satellite where Oms can live, "which they call Terr, after their ancestral planet."In the 1840s, the foppish Don Diego de la Vega returns from Spain to his family in California to find that his father has been replaced as ruler of the area by the a cruel ruler Don Luis Quintero. Despite being a skilled swordsman, Diego downplays his skills in front of the evil Captain Esteban and shows himself to be a bit of a clown in front of his family. However, Diego secretly picks up the sword of justice as Zorro and fights to return justice to the region and his people.A successful Los Angeles lawyer and hunter, Madec,  receives a rare permit to hunt Bighorn Sheep in the nearby Mojave Desert. He hires a timid college student named Ben , who will drive him into the desert with his Jeep CJ and help show Madec where the bighorn are. Ben is studying to be a geologist, so therefore he knows the desert very well. After accidentally shooting an old prospector with his Winchester Model 70 rifle and trying to cover it up, Ben argues that the honest thing to do would be for the two of them to report the accidental shot, but Madec is too important to sit in jail. It is then that Madec decides to eliminate the only witness to the crime, Ben. Madec forces Ben to strip down to nothing but his shorts at gunpoint. Madec decides that this will be easy, because he will not have killed Ben himself, and he will make up a story saying that the two became separated, Ben went crazy, tore off all his clothes and died within a matter of hours due to dehydration and heat. Ben sees this as an opportunity to walk forty five miles to the nearest highway. But Madec won't let this accidental kill destroy his career, so he is watching him the whole way and aiming at him with his powerful rifle. The rifle's power shows as the old prospector's lungs are blown out of his back. After trying to climb a butte, Ben is shot by Madec causing him to fall giving him back injuries. Time is running out as he begins to hallucinate. Suffering from dehydration, hunger, sunburn, and gunshot wounds, Ben needs to find, food, water, shelter, and a weapon to stop Madec and save himself.In New York City, four heavily armed men with code names , wearing similar trenchcoat and mustache disguises, board at different station stops (Green at 59th Street, Grey at 51st Street, Brown at Grand Central, and finally Blue at [[28th Street  on the Pelham 123 subway train run of the 6 Lexington Avenue Local service. The men take the train, securing a group of seventeen passengers whom they hold hostage, isolating them in one of the train's cars and then separating the car from the rest of the train. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Zachary Garber , a cynical and curmudgeonly yet light-hearted New York City Transit Authority police lieutenant, begins his day by leading four visiting Tokyo Metro directors on a tour of New York's subway command-center. This is interrupted by Blue's radio announcement to the command center that "your train has been taken." Blue ([[Robert Shaw , the English-accented leader of the hijackers, tells Garber they are demanding a ransom of one million dollars, to be delivered to them within one hour; otherwise they will kill one passenger per minute, starting when the hour has passed. Garber, the sarcastic Lieutenant Rico Patrone , and other transit workers cooperate while trying to guess how the criminals intend to escape the subway tunnel and get away. Various clues soon surface for Garber to figure out, first with his hearing of Blue's very distinctive English accent over the radio. It later turns out that Blue was a ruthless British mercenary, and Green  is a former transit worker who from time to time sneezes over the radio and is heard by Garber, who responds by saying "Gesundheit." Garber also learns that one of the hostages is an undercover police officer. The mayor finally agrees to pay the ransom at the urging of his deputy mayor and his wife  The police dispatch a squad car carrying the ransom money. When the car is wrecked in a collision, Garber daringly bluffs to buy some time, telling the hijackers that the money already has been delivered to the 28th Street Station and only the walk down the tunnel is delaying it. A reluctant Blue agrees to the delay. A police motorcycle completes the trip from the scene of the collision to the subway station and two unarmed officers are sent down the track on foot to deliver the money to the hijackers. With the money finally in hand, the hijackers demand that electric power be restored to the subway line, and that all signals in the path of the train be turned green from 28th Street to South Ferry, both of these being necessary for the car to move. Having overridden the subway car's dead-man's switch, which would otherwise ensure its stopping unless someone remained at the throttle, the hijackers get off the train and set it in motion. As the train starts to move, the undercover officer also jumps off the train and hides between the rails. The car begins to travel faster and faster, since no one is controlling its speed. Outside the tunnel, Garber and Inspector Daniels are convinced that the runaway train is a diversion and that the hijackers must have left the train. The hijackers divide the ransom money, discard their disguises, and start their escape into the tunnel's emergency exit; however, Grey refuses to leave his gun behind as agreed and is shot dead by Blue. The undercover officer, still hiding in the tracks, manages to kill Brown with one shot. Green escapes onto the street, while Blue shoots at the undercover officer until he wounds him. Garber arrives after Green has gotten away and, drawing on Blue, orders him to surrender just as Blue is about to shoot the undercover officer dead. Blue asks Garber if the death penalty is available in the state of New York anymore. Told that it is not, Blue responds, "Pity", then promptly electrocutes himself by stepping onto the third rail while a horrified Garber watches. Entering the South Ferry Loop, the runaway car finally encounters a red signal. The car's emergency brakes are tripped and it grinds to a halt; the remaining hostages are all safe. With three of the hijackers dead, information is brought up on their identities. None of the three are found to have any experience piloting trains. Green, the only hijacker to escape, has left as a clue only Garber's surmise that one of the hijackers must be an ex-motorman of the New York Transit Authority . With the dead three all identified, Garber realizes that the hijacker still at large must be the former transit employee. Garber and Patrone, working their way through a list of former motormen "discharged for cause" , pay a visit to Harold Longman. Longman—known to the audience as Mr. Green—is shown rolling in the packs of ransom money on the bed in his seedy efficiency apartment when Garber and Patrone knock on his door. He hides the money quickly, then opens to the officers and bluffs his way through their questioning. The officers find Longman's alibi weak, but start out the door, until Longman sneezes and Garber says "Gesundheit." Garber then re-opens the door, the expression on his face indicating that he knows he has just found the final hijacker.During the fall, Tigger has been bouncing on anyone he comes across for fun, especially Rabbit when he is gardening, which makes Rabbit furious. Soon Rabbit holds a meeting with Pooh and Piglet and the three agree to take Tigger to explore through the Hundred Acre Wood the next morning. As they do so, they then abandon Tigger in the hope that he would get lost. The three hide in a log as Tigger searches for them. The three try to make it back home, but end up at a sand pit. Pooh offers a suggestion to search for that same sand pit , and Rabbit responds that he will prove him wrong by finding a way home by himself. After he goes off, Pooh and Piglet wait a long time but he doesn't come back. Pooh then realizes that he and Piglet can find their way out of the mist by following Pooh's appetite for the honey pots he left at his house. Just when the two finally reach the end of the mist, they come across Tigger. Pooh tells Tigger that Rabbit is still in the forest and Tigger heads back to find him. Rabbit is lost and ends up in a dark, damp and misty part of the forest, where he's scared by various animal noises, including frogs croaking and a caterpillar munching loudly on leaves. The sights and sounds drive him mad and he frantically tries to run away in a panic, only to be tackled by Tigger. Tigger explains to him that "Tiggers never get lost", and drags Rabbit home. Wintertime comes and Roo wants to go play. Kanga cannot be with him so she calls on Tigger to look after Roo as long as he comes back in time for Roo's nap. Tigger gladly accepts. Along the way through the woods, Tigger and Roo see Rabbit skating on the ice. Tigger tries to teach Roo how to ice skate by doing it himself, but unfortunately, he loses his balance and collides with Rabbit while trying to regain it. In moments Tigger slides into a snowbank and Rabbit crashes into his house. Tigger then decides that he does not like ice skating. Later on, while bouncing around the woods with Roo on his back, Tigger accidentally jumps to the top of a very tall tree and is too scared to dare climb down. He gets even more scared when Roo uses Tigger's tail as a swing, making Tigger think he's "rocking the forest". Meanwhile, Pooh and Piglet are investigating strange animal tracks that are really Tigger and Roo's. Suddenly, they hear Tigger howling, for help and quickly hide. At first, Pooh mistakes Tigger's howl for the sound of a "Jagular"; but after seeing that it is only Tigger and Roo in the tree, he and Piglet come to the rescue. Shortly afterward, Christopher Robin, Rabbit, and Kanga arrive and the gang uses Christopher's coat as a net for Tigger and Roo to land in once they jump from the tree. Roo successfully jumps down but Tigger, who is still too frightened to move, makes up one excuse after another to not come down. Rabbit then decides that the group will just have to leave Tigger in the tree forever, on which Tigger promises never to bounce again if he ever is released from his predicament. At that moment, the narrator chimes in for help. Tigger begs him to "narrate" him down from the tree, and he tilts the book sideways, allowing Tigger to step onto the text of the page. Tigger starts to feel better that he made it this far but before he can do otherwise, the narrator tilts the book back the other way, causing Tigger to fall down into the snow. Happy, Tigger attempts to bounce but Rabbit stops him reminding Tigger of the promise he made. Devastated, Tigger realizes he cannot bounce anymore and slowly walks away and Rabbit feels better that there will be peace. Everyone else is sad to see Tigger depressed and remind Rabbit of the joy Tigger brought when he was bouncing. Finally, Rabbit also feels sorry for Tigger and takes back the promise they had agreed on; he is then given a friendly tackle by an overly-excited Tigger. Tigger invites everyone to bounce with him and even teaches Rabbit how to do it . For the first time, Rabbit is happy to be bouncing, as is everyone else as Tigger sings his signature song once more before the short closes.{{Plot}} Architect Doug Roberts returns to San Francisco for the dedication of the Glass Tower, which he designed for owner James Duncan. At 138 stories , it is the world's tallest building. An electrical short in the upper floors starts a small fire in a storage room on the 81st floor, which goes undetected. Roberts confronts the building's electrical engineer, Duncan's son-in-law Roger Simmons, accusing him of cutting corners and taking a kickback. Simmons insists the building is up to standards, but Roberts knows the standards are not enough and demands to see the electrical specifications and wiring diagrams. During the dedication ceremony, with several dignitaries in attendance, public relations chief Dan Bigelow turns on the tower's exterior lights to impress them and the other 294 guests arriving for a party in the Promenade Room on the 135th floor. The lighting overloads the system and Roberts orders it shut off. The building's security guards see smoke from the fire on the 81st floor and summon the San Francisco Fire Department. Roberts and engineer Will Giddings head to the 81st floor. Giddings pushes a security guard to prevent him from opening the door to the burning room shortly before it explodes, severely burning himself. Roberts tells Duncan of the fire, who insists that the party continue, believing a fire on the 81st floor will not affect the party. Firemen begin fighting the fast-growing blaze unbeknownst to the party guests, using Roberts' office on the 79th floor as a command post and the lobby as a mass casualty and staging area. SFFD 5th Battalion Chief Michael O'Hallorhan takes charge and forces Duncan to evacuate the party guests. Everyone is directed to the express elevators. Party guest and building resident Lisolette Mueller, who was romanced at the party by con man Harlee Claiborne, is one of the first to leave. She heads to the 87th floor to check on a family with two children she babysits and their deaf mother. Simmons admits to Duncan that he changed Roberts' electrical specifications, but at Duncan's insistence to stay under budget. Simmons asks Duncan how he saved the rest of the money in the building budget. Duncan is aided by Senator Parker and Mayor Ramsey in the evacuation. The fire then breaks through to the main elevator bay, rendering the express elevators unsafe. Duncan attempts to divert guests to the scenic elevators as an alternate escape route. However a panicked group of guests manage to get into one anyway. On the way down, it stops and opens directly into the fire the 81st floor, killing the occupants. The elevator then returns to the Promenade Room where the doors open and one man runs out engulfed in flames in view of the horrified guests reminding them that there is indeed a fire in the elevator shaft. Claiborne smothers the fatally-burned man with his tuxedo jacket, but it is too late. Bigelow and his secretary/mistress Lorrie are trapped in his office by a second fire on the 65th floor and killed . Security Chief Harry Jernigan and Roberts are then informed from the building's security station that Lisolette has been seen on a security monitor trying to get into the apartment on 87; the two men head up to assist. Jernigan takes the mother down to safety. Roberts and Mueller save the two children, but are halted after part of the stairwell explodes due to a ruptured gas line. They head up to the Promenade Room via a service elevator, but upon their arrival the stairwell door is sealed by spilled cement. Roberts escapes through a pipe shaft to alert security. Two firemen rescue Lisolette and the children by blowing open the door with C-4. Suppression by the fire department becomes nearly impossible as the building loses all electrical power, halting an elevator that O'Hallorhan and his men are on, forcing them to rappel down the shaft. A rooftop helicopter rescue attempt results in further disaster when two women rush the aircraft, causing it to crash and explode due to the heavy winds, setting the roof ablaze. Naval Rescue teams attach a breeches buoy to the adjacent 102-story Peerless Building and rescue a number of guests, including Duncan's daughter and Simmons' wife Patty. Roberts activates a gravity brake on the scenic elevator, enabling it to coast down to the lobby. Twelve people, including Roberts' girlfriend Susan, Mueller and the children, together with a supervising fireman and others enter the elevator. As it descends, an explosion rips the elevator off its track at the 110th floor, leaving it hanging by a cable. Mueller falls to her death before the others are saved by a helicopter rescue by O'Hallorhan. After all the women are evacuated in the breeches buoy, Simmons attempts to be the first man out. Duncan punches him in the gut, saying that everyone drew numbers and will all go when it's their turn, but that he will be the last man to leave, along with Simmons. However, as the fire reaches the Promenade Room, the remaining guests panic. Simmons forces his way onto the breeches buoy. Senator Parker tries to stop Simmons from getting on the buoy as it's not his turn. During the struggle, the buoy is taken out the window because of the combined weight of Senator Parker, Simmons, and two other men. Parker and another guest are pushed off of the buoy by Simmons to their deaths, but a few seconds later, an explosion destroys the rope holding the buoy, sending Simmons and the one other remaining guest still holding onto the buoy plummeting to their deaths. A desperate plan is hatched by the top SFFD Fire Chiefs to explode the million-gallon water tanks at the top of the building above the remaining people in the Promenade Room to try and extinguish the fire raging below. A reluctant O'Hallorhan meets with Roberts and they set plastic C-4 to the six water tanks and the floors on the 138th floor, then return down to the Promenade Room. The remaining guests are ordered to tie themselves to heavy objects. O'Hallorhan, Roberts, Duncan, Claiborne and most of the party-goers survive as the tanks are blown, sending thousands of gallons of water through the ceiling and throughout the building, extinguishing the flames. The torrent sweeps away those not securely tied down, including Mayor Ramsey. On the ground, Claiborne finds out through Jernigan that Mueller did not survive and is heartbroken, but is given her pet cat. Duncan consoles Patty over Simmons' death. Roberts says to Susan that he does not know what will become of the building, but perhaps it should be left alone as "a kind of shrine to all the bullshit in the world". O'Hallorhan says to Roberts that they were lucky tonight and that it could be much worse when fire safety is not taken into account. Roberts agrees to consult with O'Hallorhan in the near future. The fire chief drives away, exhausted.In a series of establishing shots, Sam Archer  and his assistant Milo Jackson  are depicted as coaches at the fictitious Merrivale College; their teams invariably lose. A series of plot coincidences sends the pair to Africa, where they catch sight with their Safari guide Morumba  of the Tarzan-like Nanu, who can outrun a cheetah in full bound. Seeing this, the coaching staff quickly whip out their recruitment pen and papers, but soon fall  into the clutches of Nanu's godfather, spiritual leader Gazenga  whose assistant  remains in Africa. Nanu, it develops, is an orphan and an innocent child of the bush. Gazenga believes that throwing Nanu into the world of competitive United States college athletics would interfere with his spiritual development. Despite Gazenga's concerns, the ambitious coaches persuade Nanu to join the Merrivale College program. From this point forward, the plot is driven by a combination of slapstick and suspense, for Nanu's destiny as the World's Greatest Athlete will annoy several powerful people who are used to getting their way. Nanu's innocence, Archer's scheming, Jackson's ineptitude, Gazenga's outraged wisdom, and the Machiavellian plotting of the villains all play roles in the action as the movie heads toward the final track meet. The atmosphere of American competition does indeed threaten Nanu, but he is saved from disintegration by love interest Jane Douglas . Jane and Nanu's budding relationship angers rival Leopold Maxwell , whose attempts to sabotage the budding star build toward a crescendo as the ultimate competition approaches. The climactic track meet is peppered with commentary by ABC-TV sportscaster Howard Cosell, playing himself. The movie ends with a framing device in which the hapless coaches are depicted trying to recruit a new athletic phenomenon, this time in China.{{Expand section}} Naked Massacre roughly tells the story of mass murderer Richard Speck, set in Ireland.The great detective Sherlock Holmes and his trusted companion Dr. John Watson travel to New York City to investigate a recent threat made by Professor Moriarty. During their investigation, Holmes and Watson are reunited with their old acquaintance Irene Adler, now a popular music-hall singer, who reveals that Moriarty has kidnapped her son. Moriarty has also left a note for Holmes informing him that he will be approached by the police soon for aid in a crime, and should he not refuse- Moriarty also informing him that he should provide no reason for his refusal- the boy will die. Holmes is subsequently contacted by the NYPD regarding the recent apparent theft at the New York bank, with the entire vault of gold bars having vanished seemingly overnight. To protect the child, Holmes refuses the case, but he and Watson later manage to track down and rescue the boy, thus removing Moriarty's blackmail card. Investigating the vaults, and quickly ruling as impossible the actual removal of many tonnes of gold via a narrow tunnel in the time available, Holmes swiftly determines what has taken place; based on the speed of the lift's descent, it should take them 45 seconds to reach the vaults, but they stopped after only 42 seconds. From this, Holmes deduces that Moriarty had an empty, duplicate vault built a few metres above the real one, subsequently planting wooden boards to stop the lift reaching the real vault. While everyone puzzled over how the bars were stolen from the false vault, Moriarty would actually be stealing them from the real one below. The case is solved. As Holmes and Adler say their goodbyes, Adler comments that her son has a keen intellect and a certain knack for solving puzzles, implying that Holmes may be his father. The two nevertheless part ways with Adler giving Holmes a picture of her son to keep.During the 1920s, a World War I deserter competes in the first transcontinental motorcycle race from St. Louis, Missouri to San Francisco, California.The film is set during the Arab oil embargo of 1976. Khalil Abdul-Muhsen , is the Saudi Arabian minister of state who proposes to recognize Israel, support Israeli membership in OPEC and sell Saudi oil to needy nations. The object of his plan is to protect third-world nations from the threat of Cold War ideology. Khalil's radical agenda and idealism however finds few friends and he is soon the target of multiple assassination attempts by Arab terrorist groups. They send Nicole Scott  to infiltrate Abdul-Muhsen's entourage, seduce him and await further instructions. However, she develops strong feelings for him in reality and the completion of the plan is jeopardized.The film centers around a group of Druids living in Westchester County, New York who plan to resurrect their queen by draining the blood from unsuspecting civilians into her body.Snoopy and the rest of the Peanuts gang go to the beach for the day. Once there, Snoopy promises to go back to the beach the next day to meet up with Peppermint Patty. After Charlie Brown has gone home to play Monopoly with the others, he notices Snoopy is late, but does not take note of it. The next day, Snoopy is thrown off the beach due to a new "No Dogs Allowed" rule. Then Snoopy gets thrown out of a library due to a "No Dogs Allowed" rule. He then gets into a fight with Linus over his blanket, and later beats Lucy in a boxing match. Later, Snoopy receives a letter from a girl named Lila, who has been in the hospital for three weeks  and needs Snoopy to keep her company. Upon receiving the letter, Snoopy immediately sets off with a small yellow bird, whose name is Woodstock, the newest member in the Peanuts gang, introduced in this part, to go see her, leaving Charlie Brown completely in the dark as to who Lila is. Linus decides to do some investigating, and discovers that Lila is Snoopy's original owner; Charlie Brown faints upon hearing this. En route to see Lila, Snoopy and Woodstock are forced to face the challenges of a world full of signs declaring "No Dogs Allowed." Each instance - on a bus, a train, and elsewhere - is musically accented by the deep tones of Thurl Ravenscroft. The pair are briefly adopted as pets by an annoying girl , but manage to escape. Snoopy and Woodstock camp out, and play football and music while preparing dinner. Snoopy finally reaches the hospital but, again, no dogs are allowed inside. To add further insult, the hospital does not allow birds to enter either. Snoopy is foiled in his first attempt to sneak into Lila's room, but his second attempt is successful. He then keeps Lila company for the rest of her stay. Lila claims Snoopy's visit helped her to get better. She then asks Snoopy to go home with her, but he has doubts about this idea. Snoopy decides to go back home to Charlie Brown. However, upon seeing her watching him tearfully from her hospital window, Snoopy grudgingly runs back to her, which she takes as a sign that he wants to live with her. But first, he needs to return to "settle his affairs" and say goodbye. Snoopy writes a letter directing that certain items of his will be given away: Linus is given his croquet set and chess set, while Schroeder receives Snoopy's record collection. The kids throw Snoopy a large, tearful going-away party, each one bringing a gift. The kids closest to Snoopy get up to say a few words in his honor. But when it is Charlie Brown's turn to speak, he is overwhelmed to the point of silence. He finally bursts into tears with Snoopy doing likewise. The rest of the gang, even Lucy, eventually follows suit when Schroeder plays "It's a Long Way to Tipperary" on his piano. Snoopy opens his mountain of presents . After Snoopy leaves, Charlie Brown is unable to sleep or eat. When Snoopy arrives at Lila's apartment building the next day, he sees a sign next to the front door that says "No dogs allowed in this building". Lila arrives, and Snoopy is reluctantly introduced to her pet cat. Snoopy shows Lila the sign, which releases him from his obligation to Lila. He then leaves Lila behind and joyfully returns to Charlie Brown and the others. Back home, the children are overjoyed to see Snoopy return, carrying him on high to his dog house. Once there, Snoopy demands that the kids return the items he had given them before he left, turning their feelings to annoyance. The gang then leaves Charlie Brown and Snoopy together. The film ends with end credits being typed out by Woodstock, as Snoopy dictates.An ageing Robin Hood  is a trusted captain fighting for Richard the Lion-Heart  in France, the Crusades long over. Richard orders him to take a castle that is rumoured to hold a gold statue. Discovering that it is defended by a solitary, one-eyed old man  who is sheltering harmless women and children, and convinced that there is no statue, Robin and his right-hand man, Little John , refuse to attack. King Richard, angry at their insubordination, orders the pair's execution, but before his orders can be carried out, he is mortally wounded by an arrow thrown by the old man. Richard has the helpless residents massacred, with the exception of the old man, because Richard likes his eye. The King asks Robin to pray for mercy for him. When Robin refuses, Richard draws his sword, but lacks the strength to strike him and falls to the floor. Robin helps him, and moved by his loyalty, with his last words, Richard frees Robin and Little John. After Richard's death, Robin and Little John return to England and are reunited with old friends Will Scarlet  and Friar Tuck  in Sherwood Forest. When Robin casually inquires about Maid Marian , they tell him she has become an abbess. When he goes to see her, she finds him as impossible as ever. He learns that his old nemesis, the Sheriff of Nottingham , has ordered her arrest in response to the King's order to expel senior leaders of the Roman Catholic Church from England. Marian wants no trouble, but Robin rescues her against her will, injuring Sir Ranulf , the Sheriff's arrogant guest, in the process. Ignoring the Sheriff's warnings, Sir Ranulf pursues Robin into the forest. His men are ambushed and decimated by arrows; Sir Ranulf is left unharmed only because Robin orders him spared. When the news of Robin's return spreads, old comrades and new recruits rally once more to him. Sir Ranulf asks King John for 200 soldiers to deal with Robin. The Sheriff waits in the open fields beyond the Forest, knowing Robin will attack. When Robin does, he proposes that he and the Sheriff duel to settle the issue, despite the protests of Sir Ranulf. Despite Robin appearing to have superior skills at the start of the fight, it soon becomes clear that the Sheriff is more than his match, and soon the Sheriff is dominating Robin in the fight. Eventually the Sheriff has the wounded Robin at his mercy and demands his surrender. Refusing, Robin manages to kill the Sheriff with the last of his strength. Led by Sir Ranulf, the soldiers attack and scatter Robin's ragtag band, many of whom are captured or killed. Little John swiftly kills Sir Ranulf. Then he and Marian take Robin to her abbey where she tells Robin she keeps her medicine. Robin believes he will recover to win future battles. Little John stands guard outside while Marian tends to Robin's wounds. Marian prepares a draft and takes a drink of it herself before giving it to Robin. He drinks the medicine and notes that the pain has gone away and his legs have gone numb. Then, realising that she has poisoned them both, he cries out for Little John. However, he comes to understand that Marian has acted out of love because he would never be the same man again. She tells him: I love you. More than all you know. I love you more than children. More than fields I've planted with my hands. I love you more than morning prayers or peace or food to eat. I love you more than sunlight, more than flesh or joy, or one more day. I love you...more than God. Little John crashes through the door and weeps at Robin&#39;s bedside. Robin shoots an arrow from his deathbed through the open window and tells Little John to bury them both where it lands. There is no indication of it ever falling.In 1958, the Catholic Church is investigating the case of a mysterious individual, Giacomo Nerone , who is said to have performed miracles in a remote village in southern Italy, before being executed by German troops in 1944. The process involves a "Devil's advocate", who is tasked with discovering any details about the subject's life that would indicate their canonisation would be inappropriate. Monsignor Blaise Meredith  is given this responsibility, shortly after he learns he has terminal cancer. Meredith discovers that Nerone was actually a British soldier named James Black, who had become detached from the British Army during WW2 and was hiding in this village, where he began a relationship with a local woman. The film touches on homosexuality in the priesthood, persecution of Jews and other topics.The film takes place in the deepest part of Africa - "Bush Country". The evil, bald, and multi-breasted Queen Bazonga, who resides in a blimp, inside a cave shaped like a women's legs spread open revealing her vagina, plans to conquer the earth. But before she can do that, she wishes to have a full set of hair so people can take her seriously. Her two-headed assistant, The Charles Of The Pits, suggest a "scalp transplant", an experiment where someone else's hair is transplanted to another person's head. Bazonga demands that she wants the hair of June, the maid of Shame, ruler of the jungle. Bazonga sends out her penis soldiers to kidnap June. Meanwhile, that night, June kicks out Shame from their home after another night of unsuccessful sex. She ends up sleeping with Flicka, Shame's monkey pal. The next morning, Bazonga's soldiers barge in and kidnap June, but only after they have an orgy with her. Shame hears June's screams and comes to her rescue, but he is too late. Shame eventually decides to save his mate and immediately sets out on his quest with Flicka. As he swings through the jungle, a plane crashes in a giant mud pit, containing a crew of four explorers set out to find Shame. The crew include the eccentric Professor Cedric Addlepate, the ditzy Stella Starlet, the grumbling Brutish , and his assistant Short, a nervous black man. As the crew wander through the jungle, they eventually find Shame. But before they can get acquainted, Brutish and Short step in to take Shame back to the plane, leaving the Professor to be eaten alive by savage monkeys known as "Molar Men" while Stella is tied up to a tree. The Molar Men catch up with Brutish and Short and eat them both. They free Shame from the cage, but only to try and eat him. Shame gets saved by a beer-guzzling frat boy named Craig Baker, who flies on a carpet run by a flock of birds. After a lengthy conversation with Shame, Craig gets drunk and falls off the carpet. Shame also falls off, but is saved by Flicka. Shame and Flicka eventually make it to Bazonga's lair. Flicka is told to stay behind while Shame go gets June. Unfortunately, he's caught Bazonga's soldiers while they were on a practice drill. Shame is taken to Bazonga, who tries to convince Shame to join her side and rule the world with her. Shame says he only wants June, which enrages Bazonga. Shame runs off to find June, who is about to receive the scalp transplant from the bickering Charles Of The Pits. Bazonga's soldiers try to stop Shame, which results in the blimp moving and main generator exploding, which sends the place on fire. Bazonga can't escape from the fire in her office. Shame sees this and saves her by igniting the Emergency Fire Alarm, which sends out more of Bazonga's soldiers to cover themselves in condoms and dive inside Bazonga's vagina until she explodes. One of the heads on the Charles Of The Pits kills the other while in a heated conversation. Shocked by this, the other head sets June free. They try to escape, but the Charles Of The Pits gets killed by acid semen shooting all over the place. Shame eventually finds June, who keeps bickering to Shame while they find a way to escape the blimp, as it drills its way out of the cave and flies all around the jungle. The two find an emergency two-seated parachute, and spring out of the blimp, which finally crashes onto Bazonga's cave, destroying it forever. As June kisses Shame for his bravery, they both spot Stella Starlet, who becomes the leader of the Molar Men, and plans to conquer Hollywood.In 1863, the American Civil War is still raging and Great Britain and France have yet to enter into the conflict. For the past year British troops have been stationed in Halifax, Nova Scotia, carefully checking European passengers disembarking from foreign ships. The beautiful Adèle Hugo , the second daughter of Victor Hugo, makes it through and takes a carriage into Halifax. Traveling under the assumed name of Miss Lewly, Adèle finds accommodations at a boarding house run by Mr. and Mrs. Saunders. Adèle finds a notary and inquires about a British officer, Lieutenant Pinson , with whom she's had a relationship. Later that day Adèle sees Pinson at a book shop. When she learns that Mr. Saunders will be attending a military dinner which Pinson is likely to attend, Adèle asks him to deliver a letter from her—a love letter announcing her arrival. While showing some old photographs to Mrs. Saunders, she talks about her older sister Léopoldine Hugo who died in a drowning accident at the age of nineteen many years ago just after being married. When Mr. Saunders returns from the dinner he tells her that he gave Pinson her letter but he did not reply. That night Adèle has nightmares about drowning. The next day Adèle writes to her parents telling them that she must be with her beloved Pinson and that they are planning to marry, but she will wait for their formal consent. She spends her evenings writing in her journal about her life and her love for Pinson. "I'll be able to win him over through gentleness," she writes. Pinson arrives at the boarding house and tells Adèle that she must leave Halifax and stop following him. Adèle believes that if they marry all his concerns will be resolved. Pinson knows that her parents do not approve of him and his heavy gambling debts. Adèle tries to persuade him, telling him that she's rejected another marriage proposal, threatens to expose him and ruin his military career, and even offers him money for his gambling debts, but he remains unmoved. In the coming days Adèle continues writing in her journal, convinced that she is Pinson's wife in spirit. She tries to conjure the ghost of her dead sister to help her. One night she follows Pinson to the home of his mistress where she watches him make love to her. Undeterred, Adèle continues her writing and her behavior becomes more eccentric. Mr. Whistler , the kind bookseller who provides her with writing paper, shows an interest in her. As she leaves his book shop, she faints from exhaustion. Mr. Whistler visits her at the boarding house bringing her paper, but she refuses to see him. Doctor Murdock ([[Roger Martin  visits and diagnoses a mild case of pleurisy. He notices one of her letters is addressed to "Victor Hugo" and informs Mrs. Saunders of the true identity of her boarder. Adèle's obsession grows stronger and one day she writes to her parents notifying them that she has married Pinson and that from now on she should be addressed as Madame Pinson. Upon receiving the news, Adèle's famous father posts an announcement of the marriage in his local paper, news of which makes its way back to Pinson's colonel. After Pinson writes Victor Hugo explaining he will never marry Adèle, Victor Hugo writes back to his daughter urging her to return home to Guernsey. Adèle responds to her father's letter with more fantasy, urging her parents to accept Pinson. Learning Adèle's true identity, Mr. Whistler offers her a gift of her father's books, but she responds in anger and paranoia. She hires a prostitute as a gift for Pinson. She follows him to a theater to see a hypnotist act, where she gets the idea that she can hypnotize Pinson into loving her. Trapped in a seemingly hopeless position, Adèle begins to go mad with despair. She goes to the father of Pinson's fiancé and claims that he is married to her and that she is carrying his child, thereby ending Pinson's engagement. After leaving the boarding house, Adèle's condition deteriorates rapidly. She wanders the streets in torn clothes talking to herself. In February 1864 Pinson is shipped out to Barbados, and a destitute Adèle follows him. Now married, Pinson learns that Adèle is in Barbados claiming to be his wife. Concerned about his reputation, Pinson searches for her and finds her wandering the streets in rags. When he tries to confront her, Adèle does not acknowledge or recognize him. Helped by a kind former slave, Adèle returns to Paris where the French Third Republic is now established. Her famous father places her in an asylum in Saint-Mandé where she will live for the next forty years—gardening, playing piano, and writing in her journal. Adèle Hugo died in Paris in 1915 at the age of 85.The story is set in 1916.The film shows a 1916 newspaper, and a scene late in the film shows American soldiers headed off for World War I. Bill , a Chicago manual laborer, knocks down and kills a boss in the steel mill where he works. He flees to the Texas Panhandle with his girlfriend Abby  and younger sister Linda , who provides the film's narration. Bill and Abby pretend to be siblings to prevent gossip. The three hire on as part of a large group of seasonal workers with a rich, shy farmer . The farmer learns that he is dying of an unspecified disease. When he falls in love with Abby, Bill encourages her to marry him so that they can inherit his money after he dies. The marriage takes place and Bill stays on the farm as Abby's "brother." The farmer's foreman suspects their scheme. The farmer's health unexpectedly remains stable, foiling Bill's plans. Eventually, the farmer discovers Bill's true relationship with Abby. At the same time, Abby has begun to fall in love with her new husband. After a locust swarm and a fire destroy his wheat fields, the farmer goes after Bill with a gun, but Bill kills him. Bill then flees with Abby and Linda. The foreman and the police pursue and eventually find them, and the police kill Bill. Abby leaves Linda at a boarding school and goes off on her own.P.J. Lurz, an industrialist with an office in a Berlin’s high-rise, informs his American headquarters that the company has difficulty selling its security-related computer systems to the West Germany government in Bonn. Nevertheless Lurz has hatched a secret plan to boost sales. Meanwhile Susanne, Lurz’s secretary, receives a phone call with the message: The world as will as idea. This is a code phrase amongst a secret group of thirty something middle class leftists and would be terrorist to which she belongs. The phrase has been taken from the central work of the German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer "The World as Will and Representation”. With these words, Susanne sets an ambiguous covert plot into motion, alerting the members of the terrorist cell of an upcoming meeting. They are: Ringleader August Brem; Susanne's composer husband Edgar; feminist history professor Hilde Krieger: Petra Vielhabor, a housewife who is constantly arguing with her banker husband Hans; and Rudolf Mann, a clerk in a record store. P.J. Lurz is informed by Gerhard Gast, the inspector general of the police that he is being watched and is under police protection. Gast, has also arrived to pick up Susanne, her daughter in law. In route to their home, Susanne and Gerhard stop at a hotel room and have sex. They have been carrying an affair with sado-masochistic undertones. The Gast family has dinner together: Gerhardt, Susan, her husband Edgar, the caustic grandfather, the delusional pianist grandmother and the young couple’s small son. While having dinner Grandpa Gast tells Edgar that every generation needs a war. The terrorist gather at Rudolf’s large apartment, but August is annoyed by the presence of Rudolf’s roommate Ilse Hoffman, a drug addict. August sees her as a threat to their secret activities. Bored and with not much to do the group spend their time playing monopoly. They eagerly wait the arrival of a new contact. His name is Paul and he arrives from training camps in Africa having more experience. Paul is assigned to live with Hilde. He rapes her, however by the following day they have become a couple. August Brem, the leader among the terrorist, is in fact a double agent. He is secretly in contact with Lurz, who wants to boost sales of his security computers by financing the terrorist group. Rudolf’s apartment serves as the terrorist headquarters and meeting point. Claiming domestic abuse, Petra leaves her husband and decides to stay with Rudolf. The group of terrorist is completed with the arrival of two friends of Ilse. One is her former boyfriend, Franz Walsh, a beefy black German who is an explosives expert recently discharged of the military. The other is his friend Bernhard von Stein, an aristocrat whose fondness for the works of Bakunin makes him the object of jokes. Franz fails to find a job but reconnects with his drug addict girlfriend Ilse. Times are tense and get even worse when Paul is gunned down by the authorities at a restaurant. Edgar, witnesses his death and sees his father, Officer Gast, at the scene. Paul’s death scares the members of his gang. In order to finance their activities Petra and some of the other terrorists robbed the very bank in which Petra’s husband works. While they are escaping Petra shoots and kills her husband. They franticly change their looks and names and flee from their homes. August gives out a paper squares to the group. Some have a mark and some don’t. Petra, Rudolf and Hilde got the marks and had to break into an office at night in order to steal the new identities. Rudolf is so scared that he pees in his pants and the others laugh at him. The joke is short live because Franz finds Ilse dead of a drug overdose. Bernhard is interrogated by Officer Gast as to their where about. Bernhard genuinely does not know but gets curious and follows August undetected. He sees Lurtz give money to August in order to finance the terrorist activities. After Pauls’ death, the terrorist believe that there is a traitor among them. August makes the others think that it was Franz. August sets up Franz by telling him where Ilse is buried. He then calls the authorities and gets him killed. August also does the same to Petra when she is instructed to place a bomb and gets intercepted and killed by the police. Bernhard is caught by Officer Gast at the cemetery when he tried to warn Franz that it was a set up and not to go to Ilse’s grave. Bernhard tells Officer Gast of what he saw at the Chinese restaurant and after argument Bernhard falls down a long flight of stairs and is killed. Taking advantage that it is carnival season, the remaining terrorist wearing costumes Kidnapped PJ Lurtz. He is video taped in a basement. He still believes that all is part of his secret plan and smiles to the camera.During the Second World War, Captain Lee Mitchell  and a group of British commandos attempt to locate and kidnap the leading German rocket scientist Dr. Von Heinken . Along the way they are chased by SS and Soviet forces who were also after him.http://tobrien10.blogspot.com/2010/11/last-escape.htmlIn the midst of a party a reveler croons to the rest of the room and has his hair suddenly pulled off by a curious friend. The bald crooner then has a psychotic break and starts killing everyone. Jerry Zipkin , is wrongly accused of the murders, and tries to gather evidence to prove his innocence with the help of Alicia Sweeney . He discovers that 10 years prior, a group of college kids had taken a new form of LSD called "Blue Sunshine," which causes its users to lose their hair and become homicidal maniacs many years after their trip is over. Zipkin manages to defeat the crazed bodyguard of a local politician, and save the shopping mall discothèque by carefully remembering the advice of the gun shop employee.MacKintosh  is an aging migrant cowboy drifting from ranch to ranch doing odd jobs along the way with the exception of his World War II service in the Pacific. When passing through a town he sees T.J.  a 14 year old recently released from doing clean up work for vagrancy. Shopping for supplies, MacKintosh sights T.J. preparing to steal an apple being watched by the store owner. MacKintosh pretends the boy is with him and pays for their supplies. Giving T.J. a ride the two realise they have much in common. Having left his single mother and not having been in school since Dick and Jane books were used , T.J. is off to work his way to the Pacific Ocean that he has never seen. When MacKintosh's vehicle breaks down T.J. catches a lift with a well dressed stranger on his way to El Paso as MacKintosh makes his repairs. Stopping for dinner in a bar that night, MacKintosh sights T.J. working as a busboy in the bar. T.J. explains that the man who picked him up was "funny" that made T.J. leave him as quicly as possible. A drunken loud cowboy named Cal misplaces his money and accuses T.J. of stealing. When Cal strikes T.J., MacKintosh knocks him down. Cal comes after MacKintosh with a knife with MacKintosh knocking him down again by breaking a catsup bottle on his head. Losing his job, T.J. and MacKintosh team up again. The pair find work at the 6666 Ranch run by Jim Webster where MacKintosh impresses everyone when he breaks horses, works as a ranch hand and gains more money by obtaining cash bounties for coyotes he shoots. T.J. is put to work cleaning up abandoned buildings. The two settle in until accusations are made against MacKintosh for his being too friendly to the wife of his foreman.{{Expand section}} Idiotic driving instructor and former United States Marine Corps Gunnery Sergeant Rafferty  lives in poverty near Hollywood, California. He allows two women  to kidnap him after hitching a ride in an attempt to reach New Orleans. He eventually enjoys their company and the three take a road trip to Las Vegas and end up in Tucson, Arizona.Wide receiver Phil Elliott plays for a 1970s era professional football team based in Dallas, Texas named the North Dallas BullsTELEVISION & FILM HELMETSMovie/TV helmets, which closely resembles the Dallas Cowboys. The aging Elliott is struggling to stay competitive and relies heavily on painkillers. Elliott and popular quarterback Seth Maxwell are outstanding players, but they also characterize the drug-, sex-, and alcohol-fueled party atmosphere of NFL teams of that era. Elliott only wants to play the game, retire, and own a home with his girlfriend Charlotte. The Bulls play for an iconic coach who turns a blind eye to anything that his players may be doing off the field or anything that his assistant coaches and trainers condone to keep those players in the game. As one player finally erupts to a coach: "Every time I call it a game, you call it a business. And every time I call it a business, you call it a game."The Jericho Mile was a 1979 made for t.v. movie about a convict named Larry Murphy, convicted of 1st degree murder for shooting his father. He is serving a life term for the crime that he feels was justified because his father was raping his step sister. In prison, Larry ,is a loner who has only one person he calls a friend, a black inmate named Stiles. The film primarily centers around Larry and his obsession for running around the yard whenever the inmates are allowed out. Most don't pay attention to him as many of the inmates have their regular routines when out. In Larry's case though, he has no idea how fast he is actually running until the prison pyscologist,,has the prison sports writer time him. Once the warden, ,finds out just how fast Murphy is, he has the state track and field coach, , bring up a couple of his distance runners to run against Murphy. Murphy beats them and ultimatley allows the track coach to train him in anticipation of the upcoming olympic trials. Before that can happen however, a new track has to be built to proper specs in the yard for Murphy to run on so he can register an official time to be eligible to compete at the olympic trials. The Warden asks the inmates to volunteer to build the new track. Stiles manages to swing a deal with the head of the white gang, Dr. D, , to get a congical visit with his wife 3 months early so he can see his new baby. Instead of Stiles' wife showing up, one Dr. D's drug "mules" is put in her place so that Stiles can bring in some drugs. Stiles refuses to participate and goes back to his cell resulting in the "mule" getting arrested. Stiles tells Murphy what happened and Murphy convinces Stiles to go into isolation. Stiles is killed after the prisoners are let out however. The conflicts continue with Murphy and the white gang, and the black gang and as a result, the white gang boycotts the building of the track and forms a pickett line that the other gangs refuse to cross. As the story continues, the truth unfolds and gang fight ensues as the blacks and the hispanics challenge the validity of the pickett line. The track is built and Murphy clocks a qualifying time while beating Frank Davies, , to be able to compete in the olympic trials. Murhpy is then called before the U.S olympic board where it is learned that it was never the board's intention to let a convicted murderer compete at the olympic trials. Murphy is antagonized by the board member to try to find out if Murhpy is sorry for what he did to his father. In a fit of anger, Murphy admits he would "blow him away" all over again given the same set of circumstances. With his shot at the olympics over, life at Folsom Prison,  returns to nomral. Murphy hears that Frank Davies qualifies for the olympics with an exceptional time. He then goes to his cell and grabs the stop watch  and his spikes. Murphy sets himsef up on the start line with the obvious intention of seeing how he would have done had he raced against Davies. Murhpy races as hard as he can while grabbing the attention of the prison inmates once more. As he crosses the finish line, a group of inmates are waiting with huge anticipation as to how Murhpy did. An inmate grabs the stopwatch and yells out that Murphy beat Davies time at which point Murphy throws the stopwatch against the prison wall, smasing it to pieces.The film opens in 1936, New York City, where Billie Holiday  is being placed under arrest. After being finger-printed and placed into a straight jacket, Billie is locked in a jail cell. The film then flashes back to 1928. Billie has an encounter with a rapist . She is rescued by a madame . After returning to her Aunt Ida's ([[Lynn Hamilton  house, Billie accidentally leaves the door open, puts on a record, giving the rapist the chance to slip inside; Billie is raped. Following the incident, Billie runs away to her mother , eventually being escorted to the house by a police officer. Mama Holiday feeds Billie and sets up a job to clean at a brothel in the Harlem section of New York City. The brothel itself is run by an arrogant, selfish owner named Ms. Edson , who pays Billie very little money. One night, Billie sneaks into a nightclub/bar with black showgirls, owned by Jerry . Jerry tries to get rid of Billie, who claims that she knows every single song out to date. She sees Louis McKay , he smiles at her, then a guard comes, picks Billie up and kicks her out of the nightclub. Eventually, Billie tires of scrubbing floors at the brothel and becomes a prostitute. After impulsively quitting prostitution, Billie heads to the club she was once kicked out of, and auditions with the showgirls. Jerry tells her to leave when she does not quite catch up with the girls' dancing moves. Billie then speaks to a man, who becomes her best friend; Piano Man , who plays the song "All of Me". Jerry then witnesses her talent for singing, and books her for a show, beginning Billie's career as a singer. Billie debuts at the nightclub. Her set is not successful with the audience which ends up booing her. Louis, who surprisingly arrives at Billie's debut, giving her fifty dollars. Billie, then takes the money, and sings "Them There Eyes". Louis mysteriously disappears during Billie's set. Billie takes a liking to Louis and begins dating him. Eventually, she is discovered by two men: Harry  and Reg Hanley , who sign her as a soloist for their southern tour in hopes of landing a radio network gig. During the tour, Billie experiences an overwhelming, and fateful moment; she witnesses the aftermath of the lynching of an African-American man, which presses her to record one of the most controversial songs in history . The harsh experiences on the tour result in a dependency on drugs, which are supplied by Harry. One night when Billie is performing, Louis comes to see Billie and waits for her in her dressing room. He knows that she is doing drugs and tells her she is going home with him, he loves her and that it is for her own good. He tells her he can tell by her singing voice that she is on drugs, but she denies being 'hooked.' She promises to stay off the drugs if he stays with her. He says again that she should go home with him, but she firmly refuses, but again promises no drugs. Billie continues to tour the South to equally disastrous personal results. Back in New York, Reg and Louis manage to arrange her radio debut, but the station does not call her to sing; unfortunately, her work on the tour has been for naught: the radio sponsors object to her race. The group heads to Cafe Manhattan to drown their sorrows. Billie has too much to drink and she asks Harry for drugs, saying that she doesn't want her family to know that the radio show upset her. He refuses and she throws her drink in his face. She is ready to leave, but Louis has arranged for her to sing onstage at the Cafe, a club where she once aspired to sing. She obliges with one song but refuses an encore, leaving the club in urgent need of a fix. Louis, more than suspicious that she's broken her promise to clean up, takes her back to his home, where she has been staying, but refuses to allow her access to the bathroom and her kit. She fights Louis for it, going so far as to pull a razor on him. Saddened, Louis leaves her to shoot up, telling her he doesn't want her there when he comes back. Their relationship has come to an end. She returns to the Harlem nightclub, where her drug use is intensified until, upon news of the death of her mother in the hospital, she is prompted to check herself into a drug clinic. Unbeknownst to her, she cannot pay for her own treatment. The hospital secretly calls Louis, who comes to see her and agrees to pay her bills without her knowledge. Impressed with the initiative she's taken to try to straighten herself out, Louis proposes to her at the hospital and leaves to purchase a ring. Just as things appear to be looking up, she is arrested for having been in possession of narcotics and removed from the controlled environment of the clinic. In prison, without any medical supervision or assistance, Billie is going through crippling withdrawal. Louis brings the doctor from the hospital to treat her, but she is incoherent. He puts a ring on her finger to remind her of his promise, but must leave the jail cell. Soon, Billie has done her time and comes home. She tells her friends that she doesn't want to sing anymore. Billie marries Louis and pledges not to continue her career. However, the lure of performing is too strong and she returns to singing with Louis serving as her manager. Unfortunately, her felony conviction has stripped her of her Cabaret Card, which would allow her to sing in NYC nightclubs. To restore public confidence and influence the Commission to reinstate her license, Billie agrees, at Louis' urging, to embark on a cross-country tour. Over the following months, Billie's career takes off on the nightclub circuit. Unfortunately, Louis leaves for New York to help arrange a comeback performance for her at Carnegie Hall, leaving Billie to head to California without him. Despondent at Louis' absence and the seemingly never-ending stream of venues, with them no nearer to their goal of Carnegie Hall, Billie succumbs to a moment of weakness. She asks her friend, known only as Piano Man, to pawn the ring Louis had given her and to use the money to buy drugs for her; reluctantly, he agrees. While they are in the throes of their high that evening, Piano Man's drug connections arrive, more than a little upset; apparently, he had neither pawned her ring nor paid for the drugs he procured. Piano Man is fatally beaten by the dealers while Billie witnesses the brutal attack. Ironically, within the hour, Louis and her promoter Bernie call a hysterical Billie with news that they got her Carnegie Hall. Louis returns to find a very fragile Billie; it is obvious that she is quite traumatized and has fallen back into drugs after the murder. Louis packs her up and takes her back to New York. Billie plays to a packed house at Carnegie Hall. Her encore, "God Bless the Child," is overlayed with newspaper clippings highlighting subsequent events: the concert fails to sway the Commission to restore her license; subsequent appeals are denied; she is later re-arrested on drug charges; and finally, "Billie Holiday Dead at 44." Nevertheless, the Carnegie triumph is frozen in time.Playing himself, and having filmed the final scene of his most recent movie, Jose Mojica Marins gives an interview discussing his plans for his next film. After an interviewer asks Marins about the true existence of Coffin Joe, Marins replies “Coffin Joe does not exist”. A camera light then explodes. He states he will leave for vacation at the country home of his friend Alvaro to write the script for his next film, which he plans on calling “The Demon Exorcist”. He arrives at Alvaro's. He is met there by Mr. Julio, father of Alvaro, tending his flowers. Marins is taken to the house and greeted by Alvaro, his wife Lucia, and their three daughters: Betinha, Luciana, and Vilma. Vilma is soon to be married to her fiancee Carlos. Soon odd things occur around the house and property such as winds blowing and horses being frightened, and that night Mr. Júlio frightens everyone when he begins tearing off his shirt and declaring in a frenzied voice that has come to collect a debt. Marins investigates the house that night and finds a locked hallway, but is attacked by flying books and the lights turn off. Betinha sees tarantulas and a snake in the Christmas tree. During these events the scene cuts to a strange woman who carries a white cat and is surrounded by occult figurines and symbols, and has a framed portrait of Coffin Joe behind her on the wall. Lucia admits at Marins that Vilma is promised to a local witch in the marriage to Eugenio, who is the son of Satan. Vilma is actually the daughter of the witch, but Lucia obtained her as a newborn due to her husband's infertility and faked the pregnancy with the promise to raise Vilma and return her as an adult for the marriage to Eugenio. The recent occurrences in the house are the result of the witch's anger at Vilma's engagement to Carlos. Carlos is injured in a mysterious car accident and Lucia faints fearing it to be the action of the witch. The scene then shows the witch biting the head off a rooster as a sacrifice. Marins then returns to his room and hears Vilma moaning in the next room. He finds Vilma wandering naked and she strikes him on the head. Marins wakens in a room with a black mass in progress. He sees the red-gowned hooded figures of Luciana, Mr. Julio and the witch, as well as Vilma and Eugenio side by side. The constant sounds of tortured screams fills the room. After the dancers raise their arms, some sparks fly and Coffin Joe appears. Marins is shocked to see his creation in flesh and blood, shouting rants and pronouncements typical of Coffin Joe, such as “may the blood of those who don't deserve to live burst out of their bodies!”, and “may lightning burn the scum!”. Coffin Joe walks up a staircase of human bodies to witness the festivities, mainly topless women dancing exotically to the constant screams of torture and terror that fill the background. When the wedding starts, Coffin Joe places the rings on Carlos' and Vilma's fingers, announcing “may pain and blood spread among us!”. The scenes that follow are a series of vivid depictions of torture, mutilation, dismemberment, and live cannibalism. After forcing Marins from the room, the ceremony takes place, Marins hearing it from the next room. When Marins hears the screams of the youngest daughter Betinha being taken to the ceremony in order to be sacrificed, he returns with a crucifix he found fallen from the wall, and brandishes it saying “I believe in God!”, preventing Betinha's murder. He then uses the crucifix to quickly exorcise the family members of their influence from Coffin Joe. Marins and Coffin Joe struggle. After Marins is knocked to the ground, a transparent image of Coffin Joe is seen leaving Marins' body. The witch and Eugenio both die as results of Marins' impromptu Christian pronouncements. Marins wakes in his room clutching the crucifix. He goes to check on the family members and sees Mr. Julio setting the table for Christmas dinner, Vilma and Carlos in a loving embrace, and Betinha and Luciana opening presents. Marins silently takes his leave as they sing Christmas carols. The film ends with a shot of Betinha's face with a serious expression. The camera zooms in to the reflection in her eye which shows Coffin Joe who is laughing amid the sounds of tortured screams.{{Expand section}} A litter of pigs are born to the Arable farm. One is a runt so John Arable decides to "do away with it". However, when his daughter, Fern, hears of the pig's fate, she rescues him and tells her dad that it is absurd to kill it just because it is smaller than the others. She gets to raise him and names him Wilbur. However, after only six weeks of raising him, John tells Fern that it is time for him to be sold . She sadly says good-bye as Wilbur is sold down the street to her uncle, Homer Zuckerman. When Wilbur wants to play with a lamb, his father  says that sheep do not play with pigs because it is only a matter of time before they are turned into smoked bacon and ham. Wilbur starts crying, saying that he does not want to die, but a voice from above tells him to "chin up". The next day, she sings a song about "chinning up", and reveals herself to be a spider named Charlotte. She saves him by writing messages in her web, hence the title. She eventually dies, and although 511 of her children leave the barn , three of them stay. But as much as Wilbur loves them, they will never replace her memory.On November 25, 1975, Rocky Balboa  is introduced as a small-time boxer and collector for Anthony Gazzo , a loan shark, living in the Kensington neighborhood of Philadelphia. The World Heavyweight Championship bout is scheduled for New Year's Day 1976, the year of the United States Bicentennial. When the opponent of undefeated heavyweight champion Apollo Creed  is injured, Creed comes up with the idea of giving a local underdog a shot at the title and, because he likes Rocky's nickname "The Italian Stallion," he selects the relatively unknown fighter. He puts it in lights by proclaiming "Apollo Creed Meets The Italian Stallion." The fight promoter George Jergens  says the decision is "very American"; but Creed says, rather, that it is "very smart." To prepare for the fight Rocky trains with a 1920s-era ex-bantamweight fighter and gym owner, Mickey Goldmill . Mickey always considered Rocky's potential to be better than his effort—telling him he had heart but also calling him a "tomato" and "leg breaker for some cheap second-rate loan shark" among other endearments, and putting Rocky out of his gym locker preceding the "freak luck" opportunity that comes Rocky's way, and Rocky is initially skeptical of Mickey's motives and timing for wanting to train Rocky for the big fight. Rocky's good friend Paulie , a meat-packing-plant worker, lets him practice his punches on the carcasses hanging in the freezers. A significant and prominent sub-plot has Rocky courting and eventually dating Paulie's shy, quiet, ostensibly librarian-like and potentially spinster sister, Adrian , who works as a clerk in a local pet store. He draws Adrian out of her shell and, as Rocky's girlfriend, she begins to transform into a womanly, wifely figure. The night before the fight Rocky confides to Adrian that he does not expect to beat Creed, and that all he wants is to go the distance. On New Year's Day the climactic boxing match begins. Apollo Creed does not initially take the fight seriously, and Rocky unexpectedly knocks him down in the first round , embarrassing Creed, and the match turns intense. The fight indeed lasts 15 rounds, with both fighters sustaining many injuries; Rocky suffers his first broken nose and debilitating trauma around the eye, and Creed sustains brutal blows to his ribs with substantial internal bleeding. As the match progresses, Creed's superior skill is countered by Rocky's apparently unlimited ability to absorb punishment, and his dogged refusal to be knocked out. As the final round bell sounds, with both fighters locked in each other's arms, an exhausted Creed vows "Ain't gonna be no re-match," to which an equally spent Rocky replies "Don't want one." After the fight, there is a din wherein multiple layers of drama are played out: sportscasters and audience are going wild; the promoter George Jergens announces over the loudspeaker that the match was "the greatest exhibition of boxing stamina in the history of the ring"; Rocky calls out repeatedly for Adrian, who runs down and comes into the ring as Paulie distracts the security personnel. As the ring announcer declares the fight for Apollo Creed by virtue of a split decision , Adrian and Rocky embrace while they profess their love to one another, not caring about the result of the fight.The movie begins with Doug McClure as Bowen Tyler narrating the events, much as we see in many Edgar Rice Burroughs novels. A sailor throws a bottle with a written manuscript inside it into the sea, hoping for it to be discovered later. The story is set in World War I and involves the survivors of the sinking of a British merchant ship who are taken on board a German U-boat. Bowen Tyler and Lisa Clayton  are passengers on a ship that is torpedoed by Captain von Schoenvorts . Along with a few surviving British officers, Bowen Tyler convinces the other men to take over the surfacing submarine, this being their only chance for survival. After confronting the Germans on the deck, a fight ensues and they seize the German U-boat. Tyler takes command hoping to sail to a British port. Captain Von Schoenvorts has his crew steer toward a safe sea port. But Dietz , gets loose and smashes the sub's radio. Off course and running out of fuel in the South Atlantic, the U-boat and its crew happen across an uncharted sub-continent called Caprona, a fantastical land of lush vegetation where dinosaurs still roam, co-existing with primitive man. There are also reserves of oil which, if the Germans and British can work together, can be refined and enable their escape from the island. Bowen Tyler discovers the secret of Caprona: individuals evolve not through natural selection, but by migrating northward across the island. With the submarine working again, and a sudden outbreak of volcanic eruptions across the island, Deitz abandons Tyler and Lisa  in Caprona and attempts to escape, but the U-Boat cannot function in the boiling waters and sinks. Bowen Tyler and Miss Lisa are stranded, and forced to move northwards. The movie ends with Bowen Tyler throwing the bottle, with the manuscript inside it, as seen in the beginning of the movie.A young farm boy from Oklahoma named Claude Hooper Bukowski ([[John Savage  heads to New York City to enter the Army and serve in the Vietnam War. In Central Park, he meets a troupe of free-spirited hippies led by George Berger , a young man who introduces him to debutante Sheila Franklin  when they crash a dinner party at her home. Inevitably, Claude is sent off to recruit training in Nevada, but Berger and his band of merry pranksters including Woof Daschund , LaFayette "Hud" Johnson , and pregnant Jeannie Ryan  follow him. Sheila flirts with an off-duty Sergeant in order to steal his uniform, which she gives to Berger. He uses it to extract Claude from the base for a last meeting with Sheila, taking his place, but while Claude is away, the unit flies out to Vietnam, taking Berger with them. The film ends with the main cast singing at Berger's grave, followed by scenes of a large anti-war protest outside the White House in Washington, DC.John Craig  is an ageing British secret agent that is tasked with bringing back alive a defected Russian scientist, Kaplan  who has swapped science for a modest life as a goat herder in Turkey. Craig faces opposition from his boss, his younger replacements, an American secret agent, a Turkish hotel keeper and an organization of Russian Jews hostile to Kaplan. Craig's mission is complicated by Miriam , an innocent bystander that is taken hostage.It's a seemingly idyllic summer in 1935, and identical twins Niles and Holland Perry play around the bucolic family farm. Holland is an amoral mischief maker, though sympathetic Niles is often caught in their shenanigans. Niles carries a Prince Albert tobacco tin with several secret trinkets, including the Perry family ring, which came down from their grandfather, and something mysteriously wrapped in wax paper. He asks Holland to "take them back," but Holland insists "I gave them to you, they're yours now." Their cousin Russell finds the boys in the forbidden apple cellar, and promises to snitch on them. Their mother is a recluse in her upstairs bedroom, grieving over the recent death of the boys' father in the apple cellar. Grandmother Ada, a Russian emigrant, dotes on Niles, and has taught him a psychic ability to project himself outside of his body, for example in a bird; this ability she calls "the great game." As the summer progresses, Holland appears to play some deadly practical jokes. A pitchfork left hidden in some straw in the floor of the hayloft takes the life of their sneering cousin Russell  before he can betray their secret hideaway in the apple cellar. A frightening magic trick for nearby spinster Mrs. Rowe causes her to have a fatal heart attack. After Russell's funeral, Niles' mother finds the ring, and the severed finger that is wrapped in wax paper. That night she demands Niles to tell her how he has taken possession of father's ring. "Holland gave it to me," he answers. She's shocked, and asks him when he gave it to Niles. "In the parlor, after our birthday," he answers. Holland appears, whispering, "Give it back!" After a struggle on the handing over the ring, she falls down the stairs and is rendered partially paralyzed. Ada finds Holland's harmonica at Mrs. Rowe's house after her body is discovered. Finding Niles in church, transfixed by the image of "The Angel of a Better Day," she asks Niles about Mrs. Rowe, and he identifies Holland as the culprit. Ada drags Niles to the family graveyard and demands that Niles face the truth: Holland has been dead since their birthday in March, when he fell down the well. He was thought to have been buried with his father's ring, which, of course, is in Niles' possession. At home, Ada blames herself for teaching Niles "the game," but insists that he not play it anymore. But Niles continues to talk with Holland. Holland helps Niles to remember how he got his father's ring: Holland insisted that he cut his finger off while he lay in his casket in the parlor. In the stairway, Ada hears Niles whispering. More tragedy strikes the family. During a storm, Rider and Torrie's newborn baby is kidnapped, a copycat of the recent Lindbergh tragedy.  As the adults mount a search for the baby, Niles sneaks off to the barn. Ada suspects that Niles knows more than he's letting on. When she discovers Niles in the barn, pleading for Holland to tell him where the baby is, she fears that Niles is beyond hope. She insists that he, Niles, has done all these things, but he refuses to believe her. The baby is found, drowned in one of Mr. Angelini's pickle barrels, and they apprehend the  handyman. Returning to the barn and shutting the door, Ada hears Niles in the apple cellar where the boys like to hide, whispering with Holland. She empties a can of gasoline into the apple cellar, and, clutching an oil lantern, dives into the cellar, starting a cataclysmic fire. As autumn begins, the ruins of the barn are being cleared. The camera zooms in on a padlock that has been cut open with a bolt-cutter. We find that in spite of the fire, Niles is alive and well. His mother is a catatonic invalid, Ada has died in the barn fire, and no one knows Niles's terrible secret.  When the film aired on CBS in the 1970s, a voice-over at the end of the film has Niles speaking to Holland: "Holland, the game's over. We can't play the game anymore. But when the sheriff comes, I'll ask him if we can play it in our new home." The voice-over truncates a line by the maid, Winnie, who in the theatrical cut says, "Niles, wash up now - time for lunch," whereas in the voice-over version she is cut off after merely "Niles, wash up now." The voice-over is not on the home video releases nor has it appeared on any recent television airing.In France during the German occupation, a young German naval officer is killed in Paris by a group of leftist activists. The compliant Vichy government seeks to appease the Germans by locating the perpetrators and agreeing to the execution of six people, and a special section is set up for this purpose. The section consists of judges who are too ambitious, cowardly or inhuman to refuse such work. The flames of totalitarianism must be stoked, even with innocent blood, and it is especially convenient to the government if the accused are thoroughly expendable in their eyes.Harry Crown, a stylish professional hit man with a pair of Browning Hi-Power 9mm pistols with ivory grips, carried in a shoulder holster, is brought in by mob boss "Uncle Frank" Kelly when his operation is challenged by Big Eddie, a grinning, lisping rival. Crown is caught in the crossfire, as is his romantic interest, Buffy, a third-grade schoolteacher. In his attempt to take over the rackets, Big Eddie has hired Marvin "The Claw" Zuckerman, a sadistic one-armed killer with a prosthetic attachment that includes machine guns and knives. Buffy is abducted, causing Harry to ignore Uncle Frank's warnings not to take on Eddie's men in broad daylight. A showdown in a warehouse results in The Claw being overpowered and literally disarmed. Harry appears to be too late to save Buffy, but a gunshot rings out and Big Eddie falls to the ground, slain by Uncle Frank.Two teenagers exploring at night come upon an apparently abandoned military installation. They take advantage of what appears to be a swimming pool to skinny dip. The teenagers are attacked by an unseen force and disappear under the water. A light activates in the main building and a silhouetted figure investigates the screams, but is too late to help. A determined but somewhat absent-minded insurance investigator named Maggie McKeown  is dispatched to find the missing teenagers near Lost River Lake. She hires surly backwoods drunkard Paul Grogan  to serve as her guide. They come upon the abandoned compound, which functioned as a fish hatchery prior to being militarized. They discover bizarre specimens in jars and indications of an occupant. Maggie locates the drainage switch for the outside pool and decides to empty it to search the bottom, but the moment she activates it a haggard and frantic man attacks her, attempting to stop the draining until he is subdued by Grogan. The two find a skeleton in the filtration trap of the empty pool, and learn it was filled with salt water. The man awakens and steals their jeep, but crashes it due to his disorientation, and is taken to Grogan's home where they spend the night. They take Grogan's homemade raft down the river, where the man wakes up and tells them that the pool in the facility was filled with a school of piranhas, and that Maggie released them into the river. They are skeptical until they come across the corpse of Grogan's friend Jack , who has bled to death from an attack on a fishing dock. The man reveals himself to be Doctor Robert Hoak ([[Kevin McCarthy , the lead scientist of a defunct Vietnam War project, Operation: Razorteeth, which was tasked with engineering a ravenous and prodigious strain of piranha that could endure the cold water of the North Vietnamese rivers and inhibit Viet Cong movement. The project was shut down when the war ended, but some of the mutant specimens survived the poisoning protocols, and Hoak tended to them to salvage his work. Grogan realizes that if the local dam is opened, The School will have access to the Lost River water park  and summer camp on the other side, where his daughter is in attendance. Traveling downriver, they encounter a capsized canoe with a boy whose father has been killed by the fish. Hoak rescues the boy but suffers mortal injuries when The School attacks him; he dies before he can tell how to kill them. Blood from Hoak's corpse causes the piranha to tear away the raft's lashings, and they barely get to shore. Grogan stops the dam attendant from opening the spillway and calls the military. A military team led by Colonel Waxman ([[Bruce Gordon  and former Razorteeth scientist Dr. Mengers  feed poison into the upstream section, ignoring the protests that the fish survived the first attempt. When Grogan discovers that a tributary bypasses the dam, Waxman and Mengers quarantine them to prevent the agitated pair from alerting the media. When they escape, Waxman alerts law enforcement to capture them. The School attacks the summer camp during a swimming marathon, injuring and killing many children and a supervisor; Grogan's daughter, however, escapes due to her fear of water, and eventually rallies herself to aid her camp mates in escaping the killer fish. The School continues downriver. Waxman and Mengers arrive at the water park to intercept Grogan and Maggie, but the piranha attack the resort and kill a lot of vacationers, including Waxman. Grogan and Maggie commanded a speedboat and rush to the shuttered smelting plant at the narrowest point of the river. Remembering the empty facility pond, Grogan realizes the fish can survive in salt water; if the school passes the delta, they will reach the ocean and spread over the entire world. He intends to open the smelting refuse tanks, hoping that the industrial waste will kill the fish. They arrive at the plant ahead of the fish, but the elevated water level has submerged the control office, and Grogan must go underwater; he ties a rope around his waist and instructs Maggie to count to 100 before pulling him out. Grogan struggles to move the rusted valve wheel when The School arrives and attacks him. The assault hyperadrenalizes him, and he manages to open the valves just as Maggie guns the engine and pulls him to safety. Maggie takes Grogan back to the water park, where a massive MEDEVAC is tending to the victims; his injuries are severe and he is seen in a catatonic state. Mengers gives an on-site television interview, providing a sanitized version of events and downplaying the existence of piranha. Her voice is heard carrying out over a radio on the shore of a West Coast beach. As she says "there's nothing left to fear", the piranha's characteristic trilling sound drowns out the waves on a beach, indicating that the fish have made it to the ocean.Mel Funn , a great film director, is now recovering from a drinking problem and down on his luck. He sets out to Big Picture Studios to pitch a new script to the Chief, aided by his ever-present sidekicks Dom Bell  and Marty Eggs . His big idea: the first silent motion picture in forty years. At first the Chief , who is in danger of losing the studio to the  rabid and greedy New York conglomerate Engulf & Devour (Harold Gould and [[Ron Carey , rejects the idea, but Funn convinces him that if he can get Hollywood's biggest stars to be in the film, he could save the studio. Funn, Eggs, and Bell proceed to recruit various people for the film. Their first target is Burt Reynolds, whom they first surprise in his shower. This does not go well, but they are able to sign him on by appearing at his house in disguise . They recruit James Caan despite a disastrous lunch in his broken trailer, and then torture Liza Minnelli at the commissary . They then disguise themselves as Flamenco dancers to get close to Anne Bancroft at a nightclub, and sign her on as well after a comical dance sequence. News breaks out that the Chief has taken ill and is in the hospital. While there, Mel phones Marcel Marceau in Paris who apparently declines the offer, delivering the only line of dialogue in the film, in French: "Non!" When asked by the others what Marceau said, Funn explains he doesn't understand French. It is never stated, but can be inferred that Marceau later changed his mind. Paul Newman is seen on the hospital grounds. After leading them on a wild Hollywood-style chase in electric wheelchairs, he asks to be in the film. Funn and company reply with the typical Hollywood-esque "We'll get back to you." In the next shot, a newspaper ad indicates that they rejected Newman. In the process of their search for stars, the trio have a number of brief but funny misadventures, including a mixup between two German Shepherds , a flying blueberry pie, and several  efforts by Marty Eggs to seduce various women. The most notable encounter involves a Coca Cola machine that dispenses cans by launching them like grenades. Engulf and Devour, meanwhile, worry that Funn will save Big Picture Studios and they will be unable to buy it. They attempt to "stop Funn with sex" by sending voluptuous nightclub sensation Vilma Kaplan  to seduce Funn and pretend to be in love with him. Funn falls head over heels, but when Eggs and Bell reveal the truth to him on the day before filming begins, the director returns to drinking. Ironically, moments after this turn of events, Vilma is seen calling Mr. Engulf with the news that she is quitting: she has fallen for Funn for real. She and Funn's associates find the director passed-out in a pile of winos, and several hundred cups of coffee sober him up. Funn's silent movie is completed in record time. Unfortunately, the only copy of it is stolen from the theater by Engulf & Devour just before its big premiere. Vilma volunteers to stall the theater's audience with her nightclub act while Funn and his associates go out to steal back their film. They succeed, but are chased by Engulf and Devour's thuggish executives. They are eventually cornered, but fortunately they are near the violent soda machine, which they use against their foes. Most of the executives, including Mr. Devour, are disabled by the exploding cans of Coke, allowing Funn, Eggs, and Bell to escape. They hurry the film to the theater, where it is shown for the first time. After the movie is over, the audience applauds wildly and leaps to its feet while balloons and streamers fill the air. "They seem to like it," Funn says. The film ends with the jubilant audience filing out of the theater past Funn, Eggs, Bell, Vilma, and the recovered studio chief. At the end, a title card is shown: "This is a true story."An earthquake releases a bunch of mutant cockroaches that can create fire by rubbing their cerci together. Eventually most of the bugs die because they cannot survive in the low air pressure on the Earth's surface, but a scientist  keeps one alive in a pressure chamber. He successfully breeds the cockroach with a modern bug creating a breed of intelligent, flying super-bugs.Medfield College's Dean Higgins ([[Joe Flynn  is being fired for financial mismanagement because of extreme over-spending by Prof. Quigley's science class. Higgins finds out the high costs are for renting a cow to experiment on; they are feeding it various concoctions to make it fatter. In a rage, Higgins fires Quigley  then threatens to have his entire class thrown out of college. When the dean slams the door as he leaves, Dexter Riley's  chemical experiment mixes with that of another student, Richard Schuyler's vitamin cereal mix. When the cow eats some of the cereal into which the mixture has leaked, the students learn that the cereal gave the cow the ability to produce a huge supply of milk, over 80 gallons. When Dexter eats it the next morning he gains super-strength, as does the fraternity house's pet dog who, after eating some leftovers, smashes down the door and chases after a Doberman that was growling at him. While walking to the college, Dexter accidentally bends a street lamp, then on the basketball court shatters the hoop. Dexter shows the dean and Quigley his super-strength by picking up an obese kid in a chair with the right hand and Schuyler with the left. Amazed, Higgins jumps on this as an opportunity to get Medfield out of its financial slump and keep the Board of Regents from firing him. Higgins then takes the formula-laced cereal to the board of the Crumply Crunch cereal company. Higgins demonstrates this to the board and the president by eating some and lifting weights with one finger and smashing {{convert}} tables in half. They all decide to advertise the powers of the formula cereal by challenging Krinkle Krunch, a rival cereal company run by Krinkle , to a competition between their sponsored weight-lifting team and Medfield's to see which cereal can give the other greater strength. Krinkle sponsors the well-funded State College. Of course, Krinkle has a mole on the inside who tells the Krinkle president about the formula. Hearing this, he hires A.J. Arno  and some of his goons just released from prison to steal it. They break in, but are almost caught before they can get it. They then kidnap Schuyler . They take him to Chinatown where they use Chinese torture and hypnotism to get the formula. They then hypnotize him to return home and not tell what happened to him. This accidentally causes him to steal a police car, leading to a car chase which gets him thrown in jail. Fortunately, without Dexter's chemical added in, the formula Krinkle Krunch has in the cereal does not give super-strength; when the Krinkle president tries it he ends up breaking his hand. While he berates the mole on the phone, the mole realizes that if they do not know that the formula does not work, then Medfield does not know either and will lose the weight-lifting competition. On the day of the contest, both teams eat their company's cereal then begin lifting large weights. With Krinkle's team full of large Herculean body builders and Medfield's team without super-strength, they will surely lose. Then Dexter realizes it was his formula that gave the cereal super-strength; he sets off to the lab to get it, taking the Dean's beautiful but slow vintage car. When he finally gets there, he is confronted by Arno and ten of his goons. By drinking some of the formula, Dexter is able to beat up all the men, then use the Krinkle mole to strike A.J. Arno and his men down like bowling pins. He hears on the radio than he must return to the contest in four minutes or forfeit. He adds some formula to the car's fuel tank, which makes it race off at high speed, shedding parts as it goes. He makes it in time to compete last, but the car is a complete wreck, to the dean's horror. Medfield is losing badly, but Dexter uses the last of his super-strength to lift the 1111 pound weight and win it for Crumply Crunch and Medfield. Higgins and Quigley get to keep their jobs, Arno is imprisoned yet again and the scheming Krinkle president breaks his hand again.The year is 1865. Will Denton  is a jaded American miner escaping a troubled past. Seeking isolation for two reasons - to mend his broken heart after a failed romance during the California Gold Rush, and also to escape punishment after he murdered a man in a gunfight - Denton tends a lonely and isolated lighthouse with a minimal crew of three men, himself included. The lighthouse sits on a fictional rocky island adorned with many caves carved by the crashing waves of the Atlantic Ocean; it is however set in the geographic location of the Tierra del Fuego archipelago at the southern tip of South America. Before the building of the Panama Canal, the waters off Cape Horn were perhaps the busiest and richest shipping lanes in the world  and therefore very lucrative. Denton is contented to retreat from the world and be away from the problems of civilization, and quickly adjusts to his new supervisor, old Argentine sea dog Captain Moriz  and his youthful and innocent assistant Felipe. A shipload of utterly malicious and sadistic pirates show up, murder everyone they can find, and extinguish the light. They are wreckers, brigands who mislead ships into the rocks to loot the cargo and prey upon the victims. Their leader Captain Jonathan Kongre  is a diabolical fiend with a seductive and charismatic facade. Denton hides out in the caves and amongst the rocks, hiding from the pirates. He saves Italian wreck survivor Montefiore from the pirates' massacre, and together they wage a war of guerrilla tactics against Kongre and his cutthroats. Kongre breaks his own rule by keeping one captive alive - a beautiful Englishwoman named Arabella . Montefiore is captured while creating a diversion for an attempt by Denton to rescue Arabella, who however opts for remaining with Kongre. On the next day, Kongre has Montefiori flayed alive on his ship, trying to draw Denton out of hiding, but Denton shoots Montefiori from afar. Angered, Kongre gives Arabella to his men and withdraws to the lighthouse. Denton uses the pirates' cannon to sink their ship, along with all the pirates except for Kongre. The finale of the film is a showdown between the only two survivors left on the island, Denton and Kongre.Ben Shockley, an alcoholic cop from Phoenix, is well on his way to becoming a down-and-out when he is given the task to escort witness Gus Mally from Las Vegas. Mally protests that they are both set up to be killed in a hit, which a jaded Shockley doubts. Mally soon reveals herself to be a belligerent prostitute with mob ties and is in possession of incriminating information concerning a high figure in society. Her suspicions are confirmed when the transport vehicle is bombed and Mally's house is fired upon. Shockley and Mally are then pursued across the open country with no official assistance and with the police force regarding them as fugitives. They eventually run into a gang of bikers whom Shockley threatens with his gun sending them on their way, steals one of their choppers and takes off on it with Mally. The two ride into a town where Shockley and Mally are ambushed by a helicopter filled with cops sent by corrupt Commissioner Blakelock who pursue the two away from the town and onto the open road, firing at them from above. During the high-speed pursuit, the helicopter accidentally crashes and explodes and the two then ditch the chopper and hop on a train on which, ironically, the same two bikers whose chopper they just stole are riding. The bikers attack and assault Shockley and later attempt to rape Mally, whom they pin to the floor but the wounded Shockley soon grabs hold of his gun and subdues the bikers, roughly knocking the two bikers and their girlfriend off the train. The two then prepare to enter the gauntlet of armed police officers that corrupt Police Commissioner Blakelock has set up to stop Shockley and Mally from entering Phoenix. The two hijack a bus and are about to enter town when Maynard Josephson, an old friend of Shockley's, warns the two of the gauntlet Blakelock has set up for them. While stepping out of the bus to discuss the terms, Josephson is shot dead by shooters from a nearby building and Shockley is hit in the leg. Now with no other option, the two enter the town and are shot at until the bus can no longer move. The two surrender and Shockley is shot and wounded by Blakelock who in return is shot dead by Mally. Shockley and Mally walk away safely from the gauntlet of cops.In the early 20th century, a young dusty-haired orphan named Pete is fleeing his abusive adoptive hillbilly family, the Gogans. As Lena Gogan and company pursue him , an unseen force, which Pete calls Elliott , knocks the Gogans into a mud pit. Lena, her husband "Merle ", and their sons Grover and "Willie " are determined to find Pete because, in Lena's own words, "We paid $50 for that kid, and we ain't got fifty more." The lazy, inept and constantly-bickering Grover and Willie are told by their equally-lazy parents that if they don't get Pete back, the boys will have to work the farm. The next morning, Pete and Elliott, revealed to be a green and pink animated dragon who also has the power of invisibility, share breakfast ("Boo Bop Bop Bop Bop  and decide to visit Passamaquoddy, a nearby village where the unseen Elliott, performing clumsy antics, causes Pete to be labeled a source of ill luck and must flee. Lampie, the drunken old lighthouse keeper, stumbles out of a tavern and encounters Pete. A mischievous Elliott makes himself visible to him and a terrified Lampie runs into the bar to warn the townsfolk . His capable daughter, Nora takes him back to their home, the local lighthouse, settles him down, and puts him to bed. Meanwhile, in a seaside cave, Pete scolds Elliott for causing trouble. Just as the two make up, Nora appears, having spotted Pete earlier. She offers Pete shelter and they talk . Pete is inquisitive and soon learns the story of Nora's fiancé, Paul, whose ship was reported lost at sea the previous year. Pete promises to ask Elliott about Paul and Nora accepts, believing Elliott to be an imaginary friend. The next morning, Doc Terminus, a medicine showman, and his shill, Hoagy, haphazardly arrive and manage to win over the gullible townspeople, who are initially angered by their return . That evening Pete visits Elliot and Nora thanks her father for pretending that the dragon exists. Lampie insists he actually saw a dragon and Nora tells him to be realistic, to which her father retorts that her hoping for Paul’s return is just as ridiculous. Lampie apologizes for his outburst and excuses himself, giving Nora time to think . At the tavern, Lampie tells Terminus and Hoagie about the dragon. Terminus dismisses the tale, but Hoagy agrees to go to the cave. After an encounter with Elliott, Hoagy offers the dragon some liquor as a gesture of peace, which triggers a fiery belch that chases the pair away. The local fishermen complain about the recent scarcity of fish and believe Pete is the cause. Nora reminds them the fishing grounds shift, and that Pete should be welcomed in town . Nora takes Pete to school, where Pete is punished unfairly by the strict teacher as a result of Elliott's antics. An enraged Elliott smashes into the building. Terminus, now convinced of Elliot's existence and having learned that dragon anatomy has many medicinal uses , makes Pete an offer for Elliott, which Pete refuses. Later, Pete accepts Nora and Lampie's offer to stay with them permanently . The Gogans arrive in town and confront them , only to be firmly defied by Nora and thwarted by Elliott. Terminus makes a deal with the Gogans and convinces the superstitious locals that helping him capture the dragon will solve their problems. That evening, a storm begins to blow. Pete tries to tell Nora the good news that Elliott has located Paul. However Nora, still believing that Pete has imagined Elliott, replies that Pete has no more need to believe in him. Even Lampie begins to doubt that he saw a dragon. Undeterred, Pete helps Nora prepare the lighthouse for the storm. Out at sea, a sailing ship is approaching Passamaquoddy, its captain assisted by Paul. Terminus lures Pete to the town's boathouse, while Hoagie does the same to Elliott. At the boathouse, the invisible Elliott discovers Pete, but is caught in an immense net. Elliott frees himself and saves Pete from the Gogans before they can escape. He incinerates their bill of sale , then douses them all with a barrel of tar before chasing them off. As Pete and Elliott celebrate, Terminus aims a harpoon gun at the distracted dragon, but the harpoon's rope is looped around his ankle and he is sent flying through the ceiling. After rebuking Terminus and Hoagie, Elliott saves the mayor and other dignitaries from a falling utility pole, revealing himself to the grateful townsfolk. Back at the lighthouse, the lamp has been extinguished by a storm-driven wave. Elliott returns and tries to light the lamp with his own fire. As he is doing so, Nora finally sees that Elliott is real. After several failures, due to the damp wick and the fact that Elliott's esophagus is squeezed into the lighthouse steps, the light is finally ignited and the ship is saved. The next morning the townsfolk praise Elliott for his help and Nora is reunited with Paul who, it turns out, was the sole survivor of a shipwreck at Cape Hatteras, but he suffered total amnesia due to his ordeal. Then, one day recently, his bed suddenly tipped over ; Paul bumped his head and regained his memory. Sadly, now that Pete is safe and has a loving family of his own, Elliott reveals that he must move on to help other children. Pete says his goodbyes to Elliott who happily flies off, with Pete happily reminding him to "stay invisible".The movie starts with the Ingalls family leaving their little house in the Big Woods and starting for West. After long and adventurous journey they stop in the Indian Country. Charles builds a house, starts farming, they have Indians to visit them and for the first time meet Mr. Edwards. After a year, they are visited by the soldiers and learn they should leave. After having packed everything, they set off for new journey.A cruise liner, the SS Britannic, is in the middle of the Atlantic when the owner of the shipping line, Porter , receives a phone call from a man with a lilting Irish accent who refers to himself only as Juggernaut. Juggernaut claims to have placed seven barrels of amatol  aboard the Britannic that will explode and sink the ship by dawn the following day. The barrels are booby-trapped and any attempt to defuse them will result in an explosion. Details of how to render the bombs safe will be sent in exchange for a ransom of five hundred thousand pounds sterling. To show he is serious, Juggernaut arranges a demonstration, a series of small explosions on the Britannic's bridge that seriously injure one crewmen.  Porter is all for paying the ransom and saving the 1,200 passengers on board . However, officials of the British government inform Porter that if he pays the ransom, they will withdraw his company's operating subsidy. Instead, a bomb disposal expert, Lt. Cmdr. Anthony Fallon , and his team must parachute into the Atlantic, board the Britannic and defuse the barrels before the deadline. Meanwhile, Supt. John McCleod , whose wife and two children are on board the Britannic leads the efforts on land to find Juggernaut. After an attempt to defuse one bomb by robot fails, Fallon goes to his backup plan. Fallon's team will defuse one barrel each. Fallon will go first, informing his men of each move. If he fails and the bomb explodes, his men will know what went wrong. However, if two more bombs go off, the ship will sink. Fallon proceeds to disarm one bomb, with his men following each successful step, however, a sudden lurch in the ship due to the bad weather causes one of his men to trip a booby-trap, causing his death when the barrel explodes. Fallon gives up and tells the Captain to pay the ransom, but is persuaded to continue. Meanwhile, an extensive Police search locates Juggernaut and he is taken to the command post set up in a school where he is persuaded to tell Fallon how to disarm the final booby-trap. Fallon senses he is being lied to and cuts the opposite wire from the one Juggernaut tells him, thus rendering the bomb inert. His men quickly follow on their own bombs, Juggernaut is arrested and the ship is saved.It is just before dawn in Seattle. A man dons dark glasses and gloves and loads a 9&nbsp;mm. silenced automatic handgun. He then drives into town where he shoots a policeman  on his beat, then drives to a police impound yard and shoots the officer on duty. He then waits at a luncheonette; as he washes his hands he momentarily flashes his police badge, for it is Detective Sgt. Stan Boyle ([[William Bryant  of the Seattle Police Department. When a car pulls up Boyle gives the driver a satchel containing the 9&nbsp;mm. and proceeds to his own car – but is shot in the back, by this same driver, who was suppose to be merely getting rid of the murder weapon. The Police Department, and the head of the investigation of the two killings, Captain Edward Kosterman , believe the shootings are the work of street militants; and Kosterman orders an immediate dragnet. Apparently unrelated ; and, at about the same time: Detective Lieutenant Lon  McHugh , barely escapes an attempt on his life, by a professional hitman; Patty Samuels. McQ had been awakened just minutes before his attempted killing, by a phone call to him on his boat, telling him of his longtime partner's murder, along with the two other police officers. Because he and Boyle had been investigating drug trafficking in the city; McQ is convinced from the start, that the target of their investigation, local shipping magnate Manny Santiago , a known drug dealer, is responsible for the attack on both he, and his partner. Despite a warning from Cpt. Kosterman to leave the investigation of the murders and the attempt on his life to the Department, McQ, after seeing and talking with Boyle's wife Lois ;, believes that the first thing he should do is to start tailing Santiago. While doing this, he sees a news report that Boyle has died of his injuries, he rages after Santiago and beats him viciously in a mens room. When ordered confined to desk duty by the Chief of Police and Kosterman, McQ angrily resigns, despite pleading from his friend, and fellow detective Franklyn Toms . Continuing to investigate the case privately through a partnership with local PI "Pinky" Farrell , McQ learns that Santiago has assembled major heist team to steal the confiscated heroin and cocaine from the police department's evidence vault. The drugs are normally held by the department until turned over to the State Attorney General's Office for disposal; secretly at the conclusion of their use as evidence in trials and appeals. McQ pursues Santiago's men but they escape. After getting a far harsher warning from the increasingly exasperated Kosterman, McQ acquires for himself an Ingram submachine gun. But when he presses his investigation, McQ uncovers deep corruption within the department itself. McQ learns from Santiago that the "drugs" he  allegedly has successfully stolen; are really only powdered sugar. The real drugs, from hundreds of both major and minor cases and investigations has been carefully; and, over a period of years, replaced with powdered sugar. Obviously, this switch, immense in both scale and scope, could not have been done, without massive cooperation throughout the department. McQ also realizes that Santiago was not responsible for Stan Boyle's death. McQ's investigation then leads to the shooting of one of his sources, bartender Myra , and an attempt on McQ's life again, where his car is crushed between two huge trucks. McQ escapes, but when he reexamines the wreckage he finally discovers who is behind the killings of Boyle and two other officers, and also who is behind the theft of drugs from the police, leading to a climactic chase and shootout along a beach with Santiago and his men.An aging cowboy, Ross Bodine, and a younger one, Frank Post, work on cattleman Walt Buckman's ranch in Montana. A neighboring sheepman, Hansen, is in a long-running feud with Buckman. Ross has a dream of riding off to Mexico to retire from the hard work of the range, but he doesn't have much money saved up. Frank suggests they rob a bank and head for Mexico together. While Ross thinks this over, he and Frank brawl with Hansen's men at a saloon. Buckman intends to withhold their pay to make restitution for the saloon's damages. Desperate for money now, Ross agrees to the holdup. He takes banker Billings to town at gunpoint while Frank holds the banker's wife, Sada, hostage at home. Ross rides back with $36,000. Before making a getaway, he gives Billings $3,000 so that Buckman's other cowboys won't lose any pay they have coming. Sada tells her husband to keep the money and not inform the sheriff. A posse is formed that includes Buckman's two sons, hot-tempered John and easy-going Paul, told by their father that no cowhand of his is going to get away with breaking the law. Ross and Frank get as far as Arizona and go into town for supplies. Ross hires a prostitute while Frank plays poker. A card player dislikes Frank's gloating and shoots him in the leg. Ross comes to his partner's aid and a shootout commences. Back home, Buckman and Hansen have a run-in that results in both their deaths. John and Paul hear about their father's fate from a Tucson sheriff and decide to fulfill his last request, catching the bank robbers. Refusing to see a doctor, Frank's leg injury grows much worse. Ross has to pull him behind a horse on a stretcher. Frank dies from the wound just before John and Paul ambush them on the trail, where Ross is gunned down.In the contemporary era , two Cuban tourists make a stop at the provincial town of Perales . They are curious when they see two small memorials surrounded by rocks on the corner of a street. Meanwhile, two elderly veterans of the Mexican Revolution, Chelelo  and Cornelio , come out to receive them. They explain to the tourists about the memorials and to whom are they in memory of. Chelelo then recounts the story of two revolutionary friends, Sub-lieutenant Valente Quintero  and Major Atanacio Pizarro , who are fighting a battle in one of Perales' residential streets. Valente is shot in front of the late General Gumercindo Carrillo's home where his widow doña Elvira Peña, daughter Leonor, and housemaid Carmen currently reside. Leonor witnesses Valente's casualty and is decided to go out and help him, against doña Elvira's will. Leonor then explains to her mother that she is returning a favor that could have been done to her father who died while bleeding helplessly in a forest. After, Leonor runs across the street to get the never-sober Doctor Plácido. Then Elvira, Carmen, and Leonor take a hand to bring Valente into the house. Valente stays ill in bed for several days, when his friend Atanacio later receives word about his survival. Atanacio is captivated by the elegant, sophisticated Leonor and admires the conservative sharp-tongued matron Elvira. Antonio and Leonor also start a romantic relationship, which leads them to marriage. Atanacio, who is now a rich, alcoholic landowner duels Antonio for the love of Leonor on the night of his honeymoon. The conflict ends in both Valente and Atanacio being killed by one another.In this sequel, the Robinsons continue their relaxed life in the mountains. More adventure awaits as they prepare themselves for the upcoming fierce winter. Pat fights a bout of pneumonia as the cold weather takes hold. The wildlife continues to be menacing and dangerous at times, but most of the woodland creatures are a comfort to the Robinsons. Their courage and the will to survive, along with breathtaking surroundings, help keep the family happy in their mountain home.{{plot}} In southern Arizona territory, former hired gun-turned-marshal Chris Adams rescues his old friend, former bounty hunter Jim Mackay from an ambush. After recovering from his long ride across the desert, Jim asks Chris to help him defend the small Mexican border town of Magdalena, which has come under constant attack by bandit De Toro and his men. Having recently married and assumed his job as marshal, however, Chris is reluctant to assist Jim, despite their long friendship. Later, Chris refuses the request of his wife Arrila to release jailed teenager Shelly Donavan, who is charged with robbery, insisting that Donavan needs to be responsible for his actions. Chris then meets with newspaper writer Noah Forbes who wants to write the story of Chris's eventful and brutal career. The next morning, while loading bitter prisoners Pepe Carral, Walt Drummond and Donavan onto the Tucson prison wagon transport, Chris abruptly decides to let Donavan go free. While Chris meets Noah to discuss his exploits, Donavan joins his friends, brothers Hank and Bob Allen to celebrate his release. Goaded into action by the Allens' observation that their drab lives as farmers remain unchanged, Donavan leads the pair in a bank robbery just as Arrila meets Chris and Noah in the street outside the bank. Wounding Chris, Donavan abducts Arrila and rides away with the Allens. Reviving two days later, Chris immediately goes in search of Arrila, despite his injury, and agrees to let Noah accompany him. In the desert, Noah and Chris find Arrila's dead body, which galvanizes Chris to find Donavan and exact revenge. That night, Chris tracks down the Allens and demands to know Donavan's whereabouts. Confident that Chris, as marshal, must take them back to town for a trial unharmed, Hank reveals that Donavan has fled to Mexico and admits that Arrila was raped and tortured before her murder. Chris shoots Hank, and Bob, pleading for his life, insists that he did not join in the assault. Accusing him of allowing Arrila's attack, Chris then shoots Bob as Noah looks on in shock. Continuing his search for Donavan, Chris rides on toward the Mexican border and finds Jim with a group of armed farmers from Magdalena hiding on a ridge, hoping to ambush De Toro. After Jim reveals that Donavan rode by the previous day, he again asks Chris to support him, but Chris refuses and tells his friend he is badly outnumbered and will be slaughtered. Chris and Noah depart, tracking Donavan through the desert, only to find themselves circling back toward Jim's location. Hearing distant gunfire, the men hurry to the ridge, but find the farmers dead, although Jim is not among them. Chris reflects that the men of Magdalena have likely left their wives unprotected and, assuming Jim will have returned there, rides into Mexico with the uncertain Noah. Arriving in Magdalena, Chris spots three bandits around the mission and after shooting them, enters the church to find the handful of townswomen who have been raped and beaten. Laurie Gunn explains that the seventeen women were defenseless against De Toro and his more than forty men who arrived the previous day declaring the women's husbands had been massacred. Although Laurie and the women plead with Chris to take them away from Magdalena before De Toro's return, he points out there are no horses and a desert trek would kill them. Realizing that the American Cavalry will not cross the border, Chris wonders how to defend the women. Promising to return to help the frantic women, Chris and Noah ride away toward Tucson. Not far from Magdalena, the pair come upon the bodies of Jim, Donavan and the remaining farmers. At Tucson, Chris meets with the governor then travels to the prison where he presents the skeptical warden with a request to pardon the last five prisoners he arrested, all of whom are tough, violent men: Pepe, Walt, Scott Elliott, Mark Skinner and former Confederate captain Andy Hayes. Meeting the men, Chris explains he will sign their pardons only if they agree to join his posse. Although suspicious and hostile, the men grudgingly agree. Loaded with supplies from the prison, the group departs for De Toro's hacienda, which Jim had described earlier. Arriving just outside of the hacienda and confirming that only a few men are posted as guards, Chris tells the men to raid the house and take anything they desire. Although doubtful, the men agree and quickly overcome the guards and loot the home. Finding De Toro's woman there, Chris orders her taken captive and as the men ride off to Magdalena, Chris tells the men that if they try to escape before he signs the pardons, they will be hunted in America and De Toro will hound them through Mexico for destroying his home. Realizing they have no alternative, the men give up their ideas of breaking away in Mexico and continue to Magdalena where Laurie and the grateful women wait. Suspecting they may have only a day to prepare before De Toro tracks them, Chris designs an elaborate plan of attack using the supplies of long-range rifles, dynamite, barbed wire and repeating rifles. The next day with the women's assistance and under former construction worker Elliott's guidance, the group digs several ditches, building several post and barbed wire fences at specific points leading back into the town. Elliott also constructs hidden barriers across mountain trails into the town. The following day, with the women trained in reloading the weapons, the group awaits De Toro's arrival. When the bandits attack, the initial assault with the long-range guns, sends the outlaws into disarray. Chris and the others retreat as planned to the second line of defense, which, protected by Elliott's clever rigged barbed fence, cuts off another large segment of the bandits who are then dynamited. Walt, Hayes and Elliott are killed and Noah wounded as the group retreats into the town behind another rigged barricade. During a brief lull, Chris goes into the mission where De Toro's woman and the town children are being kept, and tells Laurie that as a last resort they will lure the bandits inside and blow up the church. When De Toro's renewed assault comes, Pepe is killed. Hearing the bandits approaching the mission, Laurie prepares to detonate the dynamite, but first sets De Toro's woman free. The woman rushes outside into the gunfight and is accidentally shot down by De Toro himself. Momentarily stunned, De Toro pauses, and Chris kills him. Dismayed by the death of their leader, the remaining bandits ride away. Relieved to have survived, Chris, Noah and Skinner agree to stay in Magdalena and start new lives.The F+B Ambulance Company is locked in an intense battle with the Unity Ambulance Company to win a city contract for providing ambulance service to a territory within Los Angeles. Their star driver is "Mother" Tucker, a talented antihero who drinks alcohol on duty, harasses nuns, and behaves brazenly towards practically everybody he meets, including his partner Leroy. Indeed, the entire company is a band of misfits, including the hyper-sexual John Murdoch, his partner Walker, putative medical student Bliss, and brash Texan "Rodeo" Moxey. Handling calls at the switchboard is Jennifer, whom the drivers nickname "Jugs" for her ample bosom. Harry "Doughnut" Fishbine runs the company, using occasionally underhanded means  to maintain an income stream. When Walker is injured after falling through a staircase on a call, Harry Fishbine hires Tony Malatesta, a disgraced sheriff's detective and former Vietnam War ambulance driver. Upon learning that Tony has been suspended from the police force due to allegations that he sold cocaine to children, Mother nicknames him "Speed". Speed is initially paired with Murdoch, though their partnership is strained when Speed must stop Murdoch from raping an unconscious female college student who has overdosed on Seconal. On a false emergency call, Leroy is shot and killed by a junkie demanding drugs. When Mother pulls a gun on the junkie, the junkie commits suicide. Later that night, a drunken Mother assaults Murdoch for stating that Leroy's death "doesn't count"; though Murdoch states this in regard to the drivers' "dead body" pool, Mother perceives it as an attack on the character of his dead partner. Harry then partners Speed with Mother to alleviate his driver shortage. Meanwhile, Jugs has obtained her Emergency Medical Technician  and ambulance driver certifications, and forces her way onto F+B's active roster with threats of sexual discrimination lawsuits. When Speed fakes an injury to prevent Jugs' arrest for misuse of an ambulance, the two fall in love. Though Jugs proves a capable EMT, she loses her nerve after a pregnant woman under her care suffers a severe obstetrical hemorrhage and bleeds to death in Mother's ambulance. Jugs secludes herself afterward until Mother counsels her and gives her the courage to return to work. At a City Hall meeting, City Councilman Warren informs the owners of both Unity and F+B that they will not be awarded the contract - it will instead be awarded to a larger, established company. To save their businesses, Unity's owner, Charles Taylor, proposes that their two companies merge. Though the councilman is agreeable to the merger, Fishbine is not. The discussion is interrupted by an emergency call: Murdoch, intoxicated and armed with a handgun, has broken into F+B's bus garage office with Walker and is holding Mrs. Fishbine hostage. All of Unity's and F+B's ambulances descend on the F+B garage; upon arrival, Murdoch opens fire and hits Speed in the shoulder. When Mother charges onto the garage grounds to rescue his ambulance, he comes face to face with Murdoch; Murdoch tries to shoot Mother, but his gun is empty. A deputy sheriff then shoots and kills Murdoch. In the aftermath of this incident, F+B does merge with Unity, forming the Fishbine + Unity  Ambulance Company, based out of the old F+B garage.  Speed, who has been cleared of all charges, is reinstated to the police force, though he remains romantically involved with Jugs. Jugs is initially relegated to switchboard duty again, until Mother insists that she become his new partner. The two drive off together, with Mother harassing the nuns one more time as the movie ends.Rich Texas wheeler-dealer Big Enos Burdette ([[Pat McCormick  and his son, Little Enos ([[Paul Williams , are trying to find a truck driver willing to haul Coors beer to Georgia for their refreshment. At the time, transporting Coors east of the Mississippi River is considered bootlegging, and truck drivers who had taken the bet previously had been discovered and arrested by "Smokey" . At a local truck rodeo, the Texans locate legendary truck driver Bo "Bandit" Darville  and offer him $80,000 to haul 400 cases of Coors beer from Texarkana, Texas to the "Southern Classic" in Georgia – in 28 hours, driving a total of {{convert}}.  Bandit accepts the bet and recruits his best friend and fellow truck driver Cledus "Snowman" Snow  to drive the truck, promising to buy him a new truck. Snowman brings along his dog, a Basset Hound named "Fred", for company. After requesting an advance from the Burdettes for a "speedy car", Bandit purchases a black Pontiac Trans Am, which he drives himself as a "blocker" car to deflect attention away from the truck and its illegal cargo. The duo reach Texas ahead of schedule, load their truck with Coors, and immediately head back towards Georgia. Shortly thereafter, Bandit picks up professional dancer and runaway bride Carrie , whom he nicknames "Frog" because "you're cute and I'd like to jump ya". However, by picking up Carrie, Bandit becomes the target of Texas Sheriff Buford T. Justice , "a respectable law officer of over thirty years seniority", whose handsome yet very simple-minded son Junior ([[Mike Henry  was to have been Carrie's groom. The remainder of the film is essentially one big high-speed chase, as Bandit and Frog attract continuous attention from local and state police throughout Arkansas, Mississippi, and Alabama while Snowman barrels eastward with the Coors beer. Despite leaving his home jurisdiction, Sheriff Justice and his son continue to pursue Bandit, even as various mishaps cause their squad car to disintegrate around them. Bandit and Snowman are greatly assisted by a number of colorful characters they encounter along the way, many of whom are truckers they contact through their CB radios; these acquaintances allow them to escape police pursuit on numerous occasions. Neither Justice nor any of the other police officers are ever aware of Snowman's illegal cargo of Coors, as they are more interested in capturing the "legendary" Bandit. Despite near-constant police pursuit and several roadblocks, Bandit, Snowman, Frog and Fred arrive at the Southern Classic with a full trailer of Coors and ten minutes to spare, with Cledus blazing a trail into the grounds with his truck. Instead of taking their payoff, they accept the Texans' new offer to drive to Boston and bring back clam chowder in 18 hours, for double the original bet or nothing. As they are leaving for Boston in one of Big Enos' Cadillacs, they see Justice's badly damaged car on the roadside. Bandit calls Justice over the radio, and, after a brief bit of mutual respect , Justice angrily demands to know where he is. Bandit describes himself as Big Enos in order to put him on a false lead, but then decides that Justice is "too good a man" and tells him, "Look over your left shoulder." As Bandit and his friends drive off, Justice turns to pursue them in futility with his car disintegrating further, leaving Junior to chase haplessly after his father on foot  as the credits roll.The film largely stays true to the plot of the novel. It begins with McGee and his close friend Meyer moored underneath a bridge while fishing, when a young woman  is thrown over it weighted with a cement block wired around her ankles. McGee dives in and saves, only to be surprised when she adamantly insists that there be no contacting the police. She admits that the reason for the murder attempt was her involvement in a prostitution ring and a murder scheme. The trio eventually travels to Nassau to investigate the still-continuing murderers, who work in male/female pairs and lure rich, lonely men traveling on Caribbean cruises in to their confidence. The climax of the story involves McGee and Meyer dismantling the operation.The film portrays a young jail warden , who rehabilitates six deadly prisoners released on parole into persons of virtue. He takes these notorious, often surly, murderers and makes them work hard with him on a dilapidated country farm, rehabilitating them through hard work and kindly guidance as they eventually produce a great harvest. The warden is however given an ultimatum: He will be arrested if even one of the prisoners attempts escape. They all come across a village girl ([[Latha  who they get attracted to, but she only gets close to the warden, after he saves her from a bunch of goons. As the girl is homeless, the six prisoners plead the warden to let the girl stay with them and he subsequently agrees. At one time when one of the prisoners  coincidentally runs into his long-lost family, he tearfully re-unites with them. But they appear homeless, and so the warden allows them also to stay with him and the other prisoners. This however angers the other prisoners who feel that the warden did not give them freedom, compelling them to try killing him in order to escape. Another prisoner ([[V. K. Ramaswamy  who was actually a barber before his arrest, agrees to give the warden a shave . The warden however has no idea that he is going to be killed and blissfully sits for the shave, but the prisoner sees the warden's magical eyes and gets hypnotised, thus compelling him to call off the idea of murder. The prisoners who were attempting escape while the warden was having a shave, however see a statue of C. N. Annadurai and because they see the warden's spirit in it, they get hypnotised and eventually return. The prisoners' escape was well seen by the other policemen around, which leads to the warden's stay in jail for one day. However when they hear that the prisoners have returned, the warden is released and returns to his duty. The prisoners gradually turn into good people and become attached to the warden, who dreams of marrying the village girl he adopted, in his mother's presence. One night however, the prisoners are invited to a bar by a corrupt businessman and the warden is unaware of this. They return drunk and almost attack the warden and the girl. The warden is not pleased with their status and commands them to kill him if that is what they want. However, hypnotism and conscience again strike the prisoners, causing them to drop their weapons. The next morning, the prisoners fall at the warden's feet and explain that the corrupt businessman only told them to drink, thus they earn the forgiveness of the warden and the girl. The prisoners try to keep up to Gandhian philosophy and even refuse to fight back at the corrupt businessman when he sends his minions to beat them up. They however stay still while getting beaten up, continuously praising dharma and are eventually saved by the village girl while the nearby people beat the businessman on behalf of the prisoners. The warden is proud of the prisoners' act of non-violence and tearfully praises them. However the next day, the same corrupt businessman orders that the warden and his prisoners surrender, else there plantation and home will be destroyed. The warden refuses, so the businessman sends his men and elephants to destroy everything in sight. However, the warden and his men vigorously battle all the thugs and emerge victorious, while the local police capture the corrupt businessman and arrest him. The warden, having been praised for transforming the six prisoners into reformed people, frees the prisoners and tearfully sees them off.The movie opens with a credit sequence that follows a slaughterhouse process in from the unloading of the cattle to the making of sausages; however, inexplicably, a man's shoes drops onto the conveyor belt during the process. The woman operating the sausage machine is interrupted by Weenie , who has timed the machine using his watch. He stops the machine, wraps up a string of sausages, and marks the package with an address in Chicago. It is later revealed that Weenie is the brother of Mary Ann , the crooked operator of the slaughterhouse in Kansas City, Kansas. The particular sausages that Weenie was wrapping were made from the remains of an enforcer from the Chicago Irish mob sent to Kansas City to collect $500,000 from Mary Ann. After the head of the Irish mob in Chicago receives the package, he contacts Nick Devlin , an enforcer with whom he has worked previously, in order to go to Kansas City to collect the debt. He tells Devlin about the sausages and that another enforcer sent to Kansas City was found floating in the Missouri River. Devlin agrees to the fee of $50,000 and asks for some additional muscle. He receives a driver and three other younger members of the Irish mob for help, including the young O'Brien , who makes Devlin meet his mother as he leaves Chicago. It is later revealed that Devlin and Mary Ann have a shared history involving Mary Ann's wife Clarabelle , who previously had an affair with Devlin. Devlin and his men drive to Kansas City. They stop at a flop house, where Devlin finds Weenie in an upstairs room. He beats up Weenie and tell him to inform Mary Ann that he is in town to collect the debt. The next day Devlin and his men find Mary Ann in a barn where Mary Ann is entertaining guests during a white slavery auction. He demands the money from Mary Ann, who tells him to come to county fair the next day to get it. Mary Ann tells Devlin that Chicago is "an old sow, begging for cream" that should be melted down.  As they are standing next to a cattle pen with naked young women offered for auction, one of them, who is later revealed to have the name Poppy , begs Devlin for help. Devlin takes her with him "on account". Back at the hotel he puts the woman in a large bed in their suite to recuperate. When she wakes up, she tells Devlin about her history of growing up at an orphanage in Missouri with her close friend, Violet , before they were both brought to the slave auction. Devlin promises to take her to the fair the next day. The next day at the county fair, in the midst of a livestock judging competition, Mary Ann gives Devlin a box that supposedly contains the money. When Devlin cracks the box open on the spot, he finds it contains only beef hearts. Betrayed by Mary Ann, before his men can take Devlin away, Violet distracts Weenie, who claimed her after the auction, and Devlin is able to escape with Poppy. Mary Ann's men chase Devlin, his men, and Poppy through the fair. O'Brien is killed underneath a set of bleachers. Devlin and Poppy escape into a nearby wheat field, where they escape detection. When they try to leave the field, however, they are chased by a combine operator. Poppy falls while running and they are nearly sliced by the combine's blades. Devlin and Poppy are saved by the arrival of Devlin's men in their car, which they abandon and let ram into the front of the combine. Devlin's driver kills the combine operator. In one of the most memorable scenes from the movie, the entire car is demolished by the threshing apparatus and turned into bales of hay and metal. With their car destroyed, Devlin and his men hitch a ride back into Kansas City on a truck. Devlin jumps off the truck near the river and sends the rest of them with Poppy back into town. He enters a houseboat, the luxurious accommodations of Clarabelle, purchased for her by Mary Ann, who is there alone. He gets information on the whereabouts of Mary Ann. Clarabelle attempts to seduce him, but he rebuffs her. Clarabelle tells him she would be perfectly happy being a widow and joining Devlin again. When he returns to the hotel with a new car for his crew, Devlin finds an ambulance out front, with one of his men being hauled away. He learns that Mary Ann's men ambushed them and took Poppy. When he returns to Weenie's hotel to look for him, he finds that Violet has been gang-raped, apparently as a warning to what will happen to Poppy. He and his two remaining men drive out to Mary Ann's farm to finally take care of business. On the way, Devlin takes out a Smith & Wesson M76 submachine gun from a case. Devlin stops the car on the edge of a field of sunflowers near Mary Ann's farm. They approach the farm through the field and engage in a long gun battle with Mary Ann's men. Both of Devlin's men are hit. He tells them to stay behind while he advances with the submachine gun. Unable to get past Mary Ann's men, he stops a semi truck driver hauling livestock. He commandeers the truck and uses it ram the gate and smash into the greenhouse on the farm, demolishing it. Devlin kills several of Mary Ann's men then advances into the barn where Mary Ann and his brother are holding Poppy. From behind a bale of hay, he hits Mary Ann, who falls injured from the top of the barn. Enraged at seeing his brother shot, Weenie runs toward Devlin, who kills him. As he dies, Weenie tries to stab Devlin with a sausage. Devlin carries Poppy out of the barn. They pass the wounded Mary Ann, flat on his back, next to a sow pen. Mary Ann taunts Devlin to kill him, telling him to finish him off, like he would an animal. Devlin tells him that since Mary Ann is not an animal, he won't do that. He walks away, leaving Mary Ann to die on his back.Sonny Steele  is a former championship rodeo rider who has sold out to a business conglomerate and is now reduced to making public appearances to sell a brand of breakfast cereal. Prior to making a Las Vegas promotional appearance to ride the champion thoroughbred race horse Rising Star, Sonny discovers the horse has been drugged and is injured. Identifying with the plight of the horse and disillusioned with the present state of his life, Sonny decides to abscond with Rising Star and travel cross-country in order to release him in a remote canyon where herds of wild horses roam. Hallie Martin , a television reporter eager to be the first to break the Rising Star story, locates Sonny and follows him on his unusual quest through the countryside. While en route, the unlikely pair have a romance as they avoid the pursuing authorities.At a psychiatric hospital, former Chief Inspector Charles Dreyfus  is largely recovered from the murderous insanity that saw him repeatedly attempt to kill the thorn in his side, Inspector Jacques Clouseau. He is about to be released but Clouseau , who is now Chief Inspector and has arrived to speak on Dreyfus's behalf, comes to visit, and his clumsiness and proneness to accidents drive Dreyfus insane again. Soon thereafter, Dreyfus escapes from the asylum, intent on killing Clouseau. His first attempt involves planting a bomb whilst Clouseau destructively duels with his manservant Cato , who is under orders, from Clouseau, to keep Clouseau alert by randomly attacking him. The bomb merely destroys Clouseau's apartment whilst Clouseau himself is unharmed, largely because Clouseau has been distracted by an inflatable costume and a telephone call by Dreyfus which was meant to keep him in place for the bombing. Cato, however, ends up in the hospital. Dreyfus sets his sights higher. Using his knowledge of the underworld, he enlists the help of an army of vicious criminals, kidnaps nuclear physicist Professor Hugo Fassbender  and the Professor's daughter Margo , forcing the professor to build a "doomsday weapon" in return for his daughter's freedom. As Hugo Fassbender cannot bear to hear his daughter undergoing Dreyfus's torture , he agrees. Clouseau travels to England to investigate Fassbender's disappearance, with typically chaotic results, as Scotland Yard Section Director Alec Drummond  and Superintendent Quinlan  painfully learn. However, Clouseau manages to set his sights on Jarvis, the cross-dressing butler of the Fassbenders, and while Jarvis is killed by the kidnappers, to whom he had become a dangerous witness, Clouseau follows a clue found on the crime scene to the Oktoberfest in Germany. Meanwhile Dreyfus broadcasts himself to the world to announce his ultimatum. Disintegrating the United Nations headquarters in New York City before the disbelieving eyes of the world, he blackmails the leaders of the world, including the President of the United States , into assassinating Clouseau. Forced to take Dreyfus's threat seriously, several nations send assassins to kill Clouseau at the Oktoberfest. Many of the nations, however, instruct their assassins to kill other assassins if necessary in order to ensure that their own country can kill Clouseau and thus win Dreyfus's favor and possibly get hold of the Doomsday Machine themselves. This, combined with Clouseau's typical bumbling fashion, enables Clouseau to evade each assassination attempt just as it is about to happen, so that the assassins all kill each other instead. In the end, only the operatives of Egypt and Russia remain alive. The Egyptian assassin , sneaking into Clouseau's hotel room, shoots a man he believes to be Clouseau . The Russian operative, Olga Bariosova , who has sneaked into Clouseau's room, seduces the Egyptian, similarly mistaking him for Clouseau. His passionate sexuality convinces her not to assassinate him; when the real Clouseau makes an appearance, he is surprised to discover a beautiful woman in his bed who confuses him further by declaring her undying passion for him, and by finding a dead man in his bath. A tattoo on the dead man, combined with Olga's dismissively revealed knowledge, reveals to Clouseau Dreyfus's location at a castle in Bavaria. He leaves immediately leaving a confused and frustrated Olga behind him. Dreyfus is elated at Clouseau's apparent demise, but his joy is soured by a bad case of toothache. Clouseau, who has arrived in the village near Dreyfus's castle but has been denied entry into the castle by a mischievous drawbridge, eventually infiltrates Dreyfus's castle hideout disguised as a dentist, intoxicates Dreyfus  with nitrous oxide, and pulls one of Dreyfus's healthy teeth. Realising the deception, Dreyfus orders Clouseau killed, but Clouseau escapes. Enraged, Dreyfus means to seek vengeance on the world by destroying England; as he prepares for this, Clouseau, who has been thrown into the castle's barnyard, is literally catapulted onto Dreyfus's doomsday machine. Clouseau's weight redirects the disintegrator so that the beam hits Dreyfus  and the castle. As Dreyfus's henchmen, Fassbender, and his daughter, and eventually Clouseau himself escape the dissolving castle, Dreyfus plays "Tiptoe Through the Tulips" on the castle's pipe organ, while gradually disintegrating. The castle then disappears entirely, taking Dreyfus with it. Returning to Paris, Clouseau is reunited with Olga, who has dismissed Cato for the evening and intends on completing her seduction of Clouseau. This is interrupted first by Clouseau's apparent inability to remove his clothes without a struggle, and then by Cato, who chooses this time to once more follow his orders and attack Clouseau and Olga. The consequent struggle ends when all three are hurled by a reclining bed into the Seine. Immediately thereafter, a cartoon image of Clouseau emerges from the water, which has been tinted pink, and begins swimming, unaware that a gigantic version of the Pink Panther character is waiting below him with a sharp-toothed, open mouth (a reference to the film [[Jaws . The film ends when the animated Clouseau gets chased by the shark in the water  as the credits roll.Colinot's  world is turned upside down when his fiancee is kidnapped. This leads him to dangerous chase around 15th century France only to find that she has found love in the arms of a nobleman. But his fortunes take a turn when he meets Arabelle who teaches him many life lessons.L'Histoire Tres Bonne et Tres Joyeuse de Colinot Trousse Chemise All Movie. Retrieved on 21 August 2010The murder of two college students  leads to a manhunt for the killer, who's chief weapon is a red and black ascot to strangle his victims. When a young college student discovers that she recognizes the murder weapon, she becomes a target of the killer and agrees with one of her friends, who is friends with their art history teacher, to stay at a local villa located on a nearby cliff. However, the isolated cliffside villa offers no protection for the killer, who runs over the street vendor who he buys his scarves from and who tried to blackmail him for his silence. At the same time, a young college student who is obsessed with one of the four girls and has been actively stalking her  and one of the locals in town, go up to the villa to spy on the girls only to be ruthlessly killed. The young student who invited her friend to the villa breaks her ankle and a doctor gives her a sedative; as such, she is asleep when the killer makes his way into the house and kills the girls, including the one who can identify him. She wakes up in time to watch him dismember the bodies but hides to avoid detection. However, the killer locks the house, trapping her inside while he prepares to dispose of the body. When he realizes that the last girl is alive, he baits her into coming out of the room she is hiding in and reveals himself to her. The killer is the art history teacher that the final girl had befriended. He is revealed to be insane and anti-woman, stemming from a childhood incident where as a kid, a friend of his stole a young girl's doll and placed it near the edge of the cliff. He would only retrieve it if the young girl let him see her naked crotch; she reluctantly agreed but at he stood over the edge of the cliff to retrieve the doll, the young girl freaked out and screamed, causing him to lose his balance and fall to his death. This led to him to believe all women are lying whores that use men and cause them nothing but death in the process. He reveals to his female student/friend that the first two victims were students of him who seduced him into a three way and then blackmailed him with the knowledge of the affair. He then killed the rest at the villa to cover his tracks and reveals that his scarf was the opposite color scheme of the male student he killed: black on red instead of red on black. However, as he begins to kill the young woman to ensure his crime spree is never exposed, her boyfriend shows up and after a struggle, kills the teacher.The commercial towing spaceship Nostromo is on a return trip from Thedus to Earth, hauling a refinery and twenty million tons of mineral ore, and carrying its seven-member crew in stasis. Upon receiving a transmission of unknown origin from a nearby planetoid, the ship's computer awakens the crew.In the script and film the computer is referred to by the crew members as "Mother". An October 1979 issue of Fantastic Films magazine, as well as the back of the 1980 Fox videodisk of the film, explain that "Mother" is an abbreviation for "MU/TH/UR 6000", the model of the computer. The chapter list for Alien in the 2003 Alien Quadrilogy DVD set also lists it as "MU/TH/UR". The 1997 sequel Alien Resurrection, the fourth film in the series, echoed this element by having the crew of the Auriga refer to the ship's onboard computer as "Father." McIntee, 25, 119. Acting on standing orders from their corporate employers, the crew detaches the Nostromo from the refinery and lands on the planetoid, resulting in some damage to the ship. Captain Dallas , Executive Officer Kane , and Navigator Lambert  set out to investigate the signal's source while Warrant Officer Ripley , Science Officer Ash , and Engineers Brett  and Parker  stay behind to monitor their progress and make repairs. Dallas, Kane, and Lambert discover that the signal is coming from a derelict alien spacecraft. Inside it they find the remains of a large alien creature whose ribs appear to have been forced outward from the inside. Meanwhile, the Nostromo's computer partially deciphers the signal transmission, which Ripley determines to be some type of warning. Kane discovers a vast chamber containing numerous eggs, one of which releases a creature that attaches itself to his face. Dallas and Lambert carry the unconscious Kane back to the Nostromo, where Ash allows them inside against Ripley's orders to follow the ship's quarantine protocol. They unsuccessfully attempt to remove the creature from Kane's face, discovering that its blood is an extremely corrosive acid. Eventually the creature detaches on its own and is found dead. With the ship repaired, the crew resume their trip back to Earth. Kane awakens seemingly unharmed, but during a meal before re-entering stasis he begins to choke and convulse until an alien creature bursts from his chest, killing him and escaping into the ship. Lacking conventional weapons, the crew attempt to locate and capture the creature by fashioning motion trackers, electric prods, and flamethrowers. Brett follows the crew's cat into a large room where the now-fully-grown Alien attacks him and disappears with his body into the ship's air shafts. Dallas enters the shafts intending to force the Alien into an airlock where it can be expelled into space, but it ambushes him. Lambert implores the remaining crew members to escape in the ship's shuttle, but Ripley, now in command, explains that the shuttle will not support four people. Accessing the ship's computer, Ripley discovers that Ash has been ordered to return the Alien to the Nostromo's corporate employers even at the expense of the crew's lives. Ash attacks her, but Parker intervenes and decapitates him with a blow from a fire extinguisher, revealing Ash to be an android. Before Parker incinerates him, Ash predicts that the other crew members will not survive. The remaining three crew members plan to arm the Nostromo's self-destruct mechanism and escape in the shuttle, but Parker and Lambert are killed by the Alien while gathering the necessary supplies. Ripley initiates the self-destruct sequence and heads for the shuttle with the cat, but finds the Alien blocking her way. She unsuccessfully attempts to abort the self-destruct, then returns to find the Alien gone and narrowly escapes in the shuttle as the Nostromo explodes. As she prepares to enter stasis, Ripley discovers that the Alien is aboard the shuttle. She puts on a space suit and opens the hatch, causing explosive decompression which forces the Alien to the open doorway. She shoots it with a grappling gun which propels it out, but the gun is yanked from her hands and catches in the closing door, tethering the Alien to the shuttle. It attempts to crawl into one of the engines, but Ripley activates them and blasts the Alien into space. She then puts herself and the cat into stasis for the return trip to Earth.U.S. Army Captain and special operations veteran Benjamin L. Willard  has returned from action to Saigon where he drinks heavily and destroys his hotel room. Intelligence officers Lieutenant General Corman  and Colonel Lucas  approach him with an assignment: Willard must follow the Nung River into the remote Cambodian jungle, find rogue U.S. Army Special Forces Colonel Walter E. Kurtz  and kill him. Kurtz apparently went insane and now commands his own Montagnard troops inside neutral Cambodia. Willard joins a U.S. Navy PBR commanded by Chief Petty Officer George "Chief" Phillips ([[Albert Hall  and crewmen Lance Johnson , Jay "Chef" Hicks  and Tyrone "Mr. Clean" Miller . For escort they rendezvous with reckless Lieutenant Colonel Bill Kilgore , who commands a squadron of attack helicopters. Initially scoffing at them, Kilgore befriends Johnson as both are keen surfers. When Willard suggests the Viet Cong-filled coastal mouth of the Nung River, Kilgore accepts due to the surfing conditions there. After napalm strikes and Ride of the Valkyries playing over the chopper loudspeakers, the beach is taken and Kilgore orders others to surf it amid enemy fire. While Kilgore nostalgically regales everyone about a previous strike, Willard gathers his men to the PBR, which had been transported from a helicopter. Willard sifts through files of Kurtz, learning he was a model officer and possible future general, a top soldier in the field. Navigating upstream, the crew encounters a tiger and later visit a supply depot USO show featuring Playboy Playmates. The crew search a civilian sampan they come across, but Mr. Clean snaps and kills almost all on board, while Willard coldly shoots an injured survivor to prevent any delay of his mission. On reaching a US outpost at a bridge under constant attack, Willard is informed that a Captain Colby  was sent to find Kurtz, but is now missing. Lance and Chef are continually under the influence of drugs and Lance becomes withdrawn, smearing his face with camouflage paint. The next day the boat is fired upon by an unseen enemy in the trees, killing Mr. Clean and turning Chief hostile toward Willard. Later, they are ambushed again, by Montagnard warriors. They return fire and Chief is impaled with a spear, who then tries to kill Willard by pulling him onto it, but dies from his wound. Afterwards, Willard confides in the remaining Chef and Lance about his mission, and they reluctantly agree to continue upriver where they see the coastline is littered with bodies. Arriving at Kurtz's outpost, Willard takes Lance with him to the village, leaving Chef behind with orders to call an airstrike on the village if he does not return. In the camp, the two men are met by a manic freelance photographer , who explains that Kurtz's great philosophical skills inspire his people to follow him. As they proceed, they see bodies and severed heads scattered about the nearby temple that serves as Kurtz's living quarters, and encounter the missing Captain Colby, who is nearly catatonic. Willard is brought before Kurtz in the darkened temple, where Kurtz derides him as an errand boy. Meanwhile Chef calls in the airstrike but is kidnapped. Bound to a post, Willard screams helplessly as Kurtz drops Chef's severed head into his lap. After some time, Willard is released and given the freedom of the compound. Kurtz lectures him on his theories of war, humanity and civilization while praising the ruthlessness and dedication of the Viet Cong. He asks Willard to tell his son everything about him in the event of his death. That night, as the villagers ceremonially slaughter a water buffalo, Willard enters Kurtz's chamber as Kurtz is making a recording, and attacks him with a machete. Lying mortally wounded on the ground, Kurtz whispers his final words "The horror ... the horror ..." before dying. Willard descends the stairs from Kurtz's chamber and drops his weapon. The villagers do likewise and allow Willard to take Lance by the hand and lead him to the boat. The two of them sail away as airstrikes are launched on the village and Kurtz's final words echo.In some, but not all, prints of the film, the closing credits play over footage of Kurtz's temple-base exploding; some viewers interpreted this as an air strike called in by Willard. Because this was not Coppola's intention, after the film's original general release he replaced this footage with a plain black screen.Changes are coming for the Gendarmerie Brigade of Saint Tropez. The gendarmes are forced into retirement to make way for a younger breed. But, when they learn that one of them has had an accident and has become amnesiac, they reunite to help him get his memory back. Along the way, they have to stop juvenile delinquants to put a nuclear warhead on a rocket said youths built, while being pursued by their younger colleagues.Tired of being treated like a slave by team owner Sallison Potter , charismatic star pitcher Bingo Long  steals a bunch of Negro League players away from their teams, including catcher/slugger Leon Carter  and Charlie Snow , a player forever scheming to break into the segregated Major League Baseball of the 1930s by masquerading as first a Cuban , then a Native American . They take to the road, barnstorming through small Midwestern towns, playing the local teams to make ends meet. One of the opposing players, 'Esquire' Joe Callaway , is so good that they recruit him. Bingo's team becomes so outlandishly entertaining and successful, it begins to cut into the attendance of the established Negro League teams. Finally, Bingo's nemesis Potter is forced to propose a winner-take-all game: if Bingo's team can beat a bunch of all-stars, it can join the league, but if it loses, the players will return to their old teams. Potter has two of his goons kidnap Leon prior to the game as insurance, but he escapes and keys his side's victory. Ironically, there is a major league scout in the audience. After the game, he offers Esquire Joe the chance to break the color barrier; with Bingo's permission, he accepts. Leon glumly foresees the decline of the Negro League as more players follow Esquire Joe's lead, but Bingo, ever the optimist, cheers him up by describing the wild promotional stunts he intends to stage to bring in the paying customers.It tells the story of ruthless East End gangster Vic Dakin and his plans for an ambitious raid on the wages van of a plastic factory. This is a departure from Dakin's usual modus operandi, and the job is further complicated by his having to work with fellow gangster Frank Fletcher's firm. As Dakin plots, Wolfe wheels and deals and MP Draycott gets caught in a web of his own iniquity. They are doggedly pursued by Inspector Bob Matthews  who's just waiting for Dakin to slip up.The staff and vacationers at a first-class resort on the island of Maui are beginning to mysteriously disappear. A biologist believes that an underwater earthquake has caused a giant and very hungry dormant prehistoric fish to be released from his slumber. Voraciously the fish helps himself to a tourist buffet. Now it's open season for the local fishermen to find the creature and kill it.Two girls Cathy Phillips  and Diane Emery  have engine car trouble in a small town. When they spurn the sheriff Danen  advances, they are thrown in prison on false accusations, where they endure atrocities at the hands of the administrators and prison guards: In 1901 Corleone, Sicily, nine-year-old Vito Andolini’s family is killed after his father insults local Mafia chieftain Don Ciccio. He escapes to New York and is registered as "Vito Corleone" on Ellis Island. On the occasion of the 1958 first communion party for his son, Michael Corleone has a series of meetings in his role as the Don of his crime family. With Nevada Senator Pat Geary, he discusses the terms of a fourth state gaming license for the Corleones, but the two only trade insults and demand payoffs. Johnny Ola arrives to express support for Michael on behalf of Florida gangster Hyman Roth. At the same time, the Don struggles to manage his depressed sister Connie and older brother Fredo. Corleone caporegime Frank Pentangeli is very unhappy that his boss will not help him defend New York against the Rosato brothers, who work for the Jewish Roth. That night, Michael survives an assassination attempt at his home and puts consigliere Tom Hagen in charge, reassuring him of their fraternal bond. : In 1917, Vito Corleone  lives in a tenement with his wife Carmela and son Sonny, and works in a New York grocery store owned by the father of a close friend. A member of the Black Hand, Don Fanucci, who extorts protection payments from local businesses, forces the store owner to fire Vito and give his job to Fanucci's nephew. As a favor to his neighbor, Peter Clemenza, Vito hides a stash of guns; in return, he is invited to the burglary of a rich apartment. His share of the loot is a plush rug, which he lays in his own living room. In Miami, Michael tells Roth that Pentangeli was behind the assassination attempt; he then tells Pentangeli that Roth ordered it and asks him to cooperate. Pentangeli meets the Rosatos but their men garrote him, saying they act on Michael's orders. Geary finds himself in Fredo's brothel with a dead prostitute and no memory of how he got there; he accepts Tom's offer of "friendship" to cover up the incident. After witnessing a rebel suicide bombing in Havana, Cuba, Michael becomes convinced of the rebels' resolve to overthrow the dictator Fulgencio Batista. Fredo brings Michael the money for a deal with Roth, but instead of turning it over to Roth, Michael asks who put out the hit on Pentangeli. Roth is reminded of his late friend Moe Greene{{spaced ndash}}dead in a spate of Corleone killing{{spaced ndash}}saying, "This is the business we've chosen. I didn't ask who gave the order because it had nothing to do with business!" At a New Year's Eve party, Fredo lets slip that he knew Johnny Ola despite his previous denial. Dismayed, Michael embraces his brother, revealing that he knows he was behind the plot on his life, and a frightened Fredo flees in the chaos. Michael's bodyguard strangles Ola but is killed by police before he can finish off the ailing Roth. Back home, Hagen informs Michael that Roth is recovering in Miami and that Kay's pregnancy has miscarried. : Three years later, Vito has two more boys . He and his partners  face extortion by Don Fanucci, who demands they let him "wet his beak" from their recent burglary or he will have the police ruin Vito's family. Vito persuades his partners to pay Fanucci less than he asks and promises he will "make him an offer he don't refuse" as a favor to them. During a neighborhood festa, Vito meets with Fanucci and earns his respect. He then follows Fanucci, surprises him in his apartment foyer, shoots and kills him, takes back his partners' money and escapes.  In Washington, D.C., a Senate committee investigating the Corleone family cannot find evidence to implicate Michael until a surprise witness is called. Pentangeli, ensconced in FBI witness protection and ready to avenge the attempt on his life, is prepared to confirm accusations against Michael until his Sicilian brother attends the hearing at the Don's side; Pentangeli denies his sworn statements and the hearing dissolves in an uproar. : Vito has become a respected figure in his New York community. He confronts a landlord who doesn't know him, offering extra money to let a widow keep her apartment. The landlord says he has already leased it and becomes angry when Vito demands that he allow her to keep her dog. Later the landlord learns that he may have offended the wrong person. Terrified, he returns to assure Vito that the widow can stay, along with her dog, at a reduced rent.  Michael and Hagen observe that Roth's strategy to destroy Michael is well planned. Fredo has been found and persuaded to return to Nevada, and in a private meeting he explains his betrayal to Michael; he was upset about being passed over to head the family, and helped Roth, thinking there would be something in it for him. He swears he was unaware of their plan to kill Michael. He tells Michael that the Senate Committee's chief counsel is on Roth's payroll. Michael disowns Fredo and instructs Al Neri that " nothing is to happen to him while my mother's alive." Afterwards, Michael violently prevents Kay from leaving with their children; she retaliates with the revelation that her miscarriage was actually an abortion. :In 1923, Vito, together with his young family, visits Sicily for the first time since leaving for America. He is introduced to the elderly Don Ciccio by Don Tommasino as the man who imports their olive oil to America, and who wants his blessing. When Ciccio asks Vito who his father was, Vito says, "My father's name was Antonio Andolini, and this is for you!" He then plunges a large knife into the old man's stomach and carves it open. As they flee, Tommasino is shot, confining him to a wheelchair for the rest of his life. Michael's mother dies. At the funeral, a reformed Connie implores Michael to forgive Fredo. Michael relents and embraces Fredo, but glances at Neri. Roth is refused asylum and even entry to Israel. Over Hagen's dissent, Michael plans his revenge. Hagen visits Pentangeli and offers to spare his family, reminding him that failed plotters against the Roman Emperor took their own lives. Connie helps Kay visit her children, but Michael closes the door on any forgiveness. As he arrives in Miami to be taken into custody, Hyman Roth is shot in the stomach and killed by Lampone, who is immediately shot dead by FBI agents. Frank Pentangeli is dead in his bathtub with slit wrists. Neri shoots Fredo while they are fishing on Lake Tahoe. : The Corleone family gathers to surprise Vito for his fiftieth birthday. Sonny introduces Carlo Rizzi to Connie. Tessio comes in with the cake, and they discuss the attack on Pearl Harbor earlier in the month. Michael announces he has left college to enlist in the Marines,United States World War II leaving Sonny furious, Tom incredulous, and Fredo supportive. Vito is heard at the door and all but Michael leave the room to greet him. Michael sits alone by the lake at the family compound.In a city of the future, sexual intercourse is outlawed and use of mind-altering drugs is mandatory. Narcotics are critical both in maintaining compliance among the city's residents and also for ensuring their ability to conduct dangerous and demanding tasks for long periods of time. The inhabitants worship a godlike being known as "OMM 0910", with whom they commune in telephone booth-like areas known as Unichapels. At their jobs, SEN 5241 and LUH 3417 keep surveillance on the city and field questions . LUH has a male roommate, THX 1138. He works in a factory producing androids that function as police officers. The work is hazardous as it requires handling explosive and radioactive material. LUH becomes disillusioned and makes a conscious decision to break the law and stop taking her drugs. She subsequently secretly substitutes inactive pills for THX's medications. As the drug's effects wear off, THX finds himself experiencing authentic emotions and sexual desire for the first time. At first conflicted and nauseated, he eventually connects with LUH. Knowing that their relationship is illegal, THX must decide whether to return to using the prescribed drugs, or escape with LUH. He knows that he will not be able to function without his drugs while at his demanding job, but he does not want to lose what he has created with LUH. They consider an escape to the "superstructure," where they hope to be able to live in freedom. THX is confronted by SEN, who uses his position as LUH's superior to change her shift, admitting he wants THX as his new roommate. THX files a complaint against SEN for the illegal shift change. Without drugs in his system, THX falters during critical and hazardous phases of his job. The city's authorities discover THX's and LUH's crimes of sexual intercourse and drug evasion . THX and LUH are arrested. THX is imprisoned in an area of the city that resembles a white limbo world. He enjoys a brief reunion with LUH—one disrupted by the enforcer robots. THX is consigned to another region of limbo, this one populated by a collection of other prisoners, including SEN. Knowing that THX filed the complaint against him, SEN nevertheless rallies him to join his undescribed cause. Most of the prisoners seem uninterested in escape, but eventually THX and SEN decide to find an exit. They encounter SRT, who starred in the holograms broadcast across the city. SRT has become disenchanted with his role in the society and is making an attempt to escape. Exiting their prison, THX and SRT are separated from SEN. Controllers in the city learn of the escape and allot a strict budget  for their recapture. Chased by the robots, THX and SRT find a computer center, from which THX learns that LUH has been "consumed", possibly for organ reclamation  and her name reassigned to fetus 66691 in a growth chamber. This suggests that she has been declared "incurable" and killed. Alone and hunted, SEN makes a tentative exploration of the limits of the city's underground network. Cowed by what he sees, he finds his way to an area reserved for the monks of OMM. Alone, SEN prays directly to OMM before being confronted by a lone monk who notices that SEN has no identification badge. SEN attacks before the monk can report him. Returning to the city, SEN strikes up a conversation with children before police androids apprehend him. THX and SRT steal two cars, but SRT crashes into a concrete pillar, disabling his car. Pursued by two police androids on motorcycles, THX in his car flees to the limits of the city's underground road network. Abandoning the car, eventually THX locates a route to the surface. The police pursue THX up an escape ladder, but are ordered by central command to cease pursuit, mere steps away from capturing him, as the expense of his capture exceeds their pre-determined budget. It is then revealed that the entirety of the city whence THX came is all underground, as he stands before a large setting sun in a red sky, while birds intermittently fly overhead .In June 1972, a security guard ([[Frank Wills  at the Watergate complex finds a door kept unlocked with tape. The police arrive where they find and arrest five burglars in the Democratic National Committee headquarters within the complex. The next morning, The Washington Post assigns new reporter Bob Woodward  to the local courthouse to cover the unimportant story. Woodward learns that the five men&mdash;four Cuban-Americans from Miami and James W. McCord, Jr.&mdash;had bugging equipment and have their own "country club" attorney. McCord identifies himself in court as having recently left the Central Intelligence Agency, and the others also have CIA ties. The reporter connects the burglars to E. Howard Hunt, a former employee of the CIA, and President Richard Nixon's Special Counsel Charles Colson. Carl Bernstein , another Post reporter, is assigned to cover the Watergate story with Woodward. The two are reluctant partners, but work well together. Executive editor Ben Bradlee  believes their work is incomplete, however, and not worthy of the Posts front page. He encourages them to continue to gather information. Woodward contacts "Deep Throat" , a senior government official and anonymous source he has used in the past. Communicating through copies of The New York Times and a balcony flowerpot, they meet in a parking garage in the middle of the night. Deep Throat speaks in riddles and metaphors about the Watergate break-in, but advises Woodward to "follow the money". Over the next few weeks, Woodward and Bernstein connect the five burglars to thousands of dollars in diverted campaign contributions to Nixon's Committee to Re-elect the President . Bradlee and others at the Post dislike the two young reporters' reliance on unnamed sources like Deep Throat, and wonder why the Nixon administration would break the law when the President is likely to defeat Democratic nominee George McGovern. Through former CREEP treasurer Hugh W. Sloan, Jr. , Woodward and Bernstein connect a slush fund of hundreds of thousands of dollars to White House Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman&mdash;"the second most important man in this country"&mdash;and former Nixon Attorney General John N. Mitchell, now head of CREEP. They learn that CREEP used the fund to begin a "ratfucking" campaign to sabotage Democratic presidential candidates a year before the Watergate burglary, when Nixon was behind Edmund Muskie in the polls. Bradlee's demand for thoroughness forces the reporters to obtain other sources to confirm the Haldeman connection. When the White House issues a non-denial denial of the Posts above-the-fold story, the editor thus continues to support them. Woodward secretly meets with Deep Throat again for more questions where Deep Throat finally reveals that the Watergate break-in was indeed masterminded by Haldeman. Deep Throat also claims that the cover-up was not to hide the other burglaries or of their involvement with CREEP, but to hide the "covert operations" involving "the entire U.S. intelligence community", and warns that Woodward, Bernstein, and others' lives are in danger. When Woodward and Bernstein relay this to Bradlee, he urges the reporters to continue despite the risk and Nixon's re-election. In the final scene, set on January 20, 1973, Bernstein and Woodward type out the full story, with the TV in their office showing Nixon taking the Oath of Office, for his second term as President of the United States, in the foreground. The sound of their typewriter keys blends on the soundtrack with that of the 21-gun-salute at the inauguration, as if to suggest that Woodward and Bernstein are actively "gunning-down" Nixon at that very moment. A montage of Watergate-related teletype headlines from the following years is shown, ending with Nixon's resignation and the inauguration of Vice President Gerald Ford on August 9, 1974.Two warring planets agree to settle their conflict by each sending a trio of soldiers to Earth for a duel to the death. Disguised as human beings, they can only identify each other by using special visors. Kyle , one of the combatants, befriends and eventually falls in love with Sandy , a woman he meets during his hunt for his enemies. In the end, Kyle is the last survivor, but before he can signal his people that he has won, Sandy shoots him. He discovers that she is not a human being after all. The other side cheated and sent her as well. Though she loves him, her duty to her race won out. Weeping as she watches him die, she asks him what their half-breed children would have been.The young English nobleman Sir Thomas Fitzpatrick Phillip Moore  arrives in the West following the wish of this late father who years earlier had to leave England due to an affair. The trouble led to a conflict with "Vicci Windsor". In the West, the young man joins up with his father's former pals, the stagecoach robbers Monkey , Holy Joe  and Bull . The characters are introduced as time moves on during Tom's journey, beginning with Bull who works at a stagecoach station disguised as a mute man. After Bull has listened in on the conversation of two headhunters and found out about the death of "The Englishman" , he begins a journey of his own. In a small town he finds a preacher who's in his church, conducting a fiery sermon to a somewhat dubious audience of drunkards, gamblers and easy women who he had to drive into his church just as he had to have the saloon's pianola moved into the church right before. Both of them then proceed to Yuma, where the third one, Monkey is in jail as usual. Through deceit they manage to free Monkey after they manage to keep him from taking revenge on the sadistic warden, because according to Holy on the day of the Lord you don't shoot people. From there they travel to the Englishman's gang's old hideout in the mountain, which is also the destination of Tom's journey, who had just before been in a stagecoach robbery performed by the masked trio of Monkey, Bull and Holy. Tom was just about to inspect the property around the log cabin when suddenly his walking stick is shot out from under him by the three crooks, who do not know who Tom is and therefore suspect him to have come back to retrieve the stolen money. Soon the situation is explained by Tom showing them a photograph of his father along with giving Holy a letter of his father for the three of them. In his letter the father asks them to make a "real man" out of his progress-loving son. Initially they fail miserably since Tom refuses to touch a weapon and would rather ride his bicycle than a horse. This changes once he meets Candida  in the town's thrift store, the landowner's daughter who he had once met before when she travelled in the same train as him and had captivated his thoughts. There she asks for Books of Lord Byron, which he can procure, unlike the trader. Candida returns his love. Since Morton , Candida's father's rough ranch administrator has also set his eyes on the girl this leads to several brawls during which Tom initially ends up on the receiving side. Only after an intensive course in all things brawling, shooting and spitting which his father's accomplices put him through Tom not only manages to put Morton in his place but also Candida's father  who has been convinced of Tom's skills. It ends with a happy end although Monkey, Bull and Holy leave the town in which progress has taken a footing, driving them to flee further toward the west. In the last scene they reach the Pacific, shocked to hear the whistle of a steam train and so they turned back.Bickford Waner  arrives in Dime Box, Texas to find work. He's befriended by Reese Ford  and his wife Molly . Molly seduces Bickford. Bickford's former girlfriend Janet Conforto  tracks him down and reveals that Bickford is actually a train robber known as Kid Blue. Bickford, who was trying to go straight, returns to his old ways and plots a crime.Set in contemporary England, the film follows Doctor Brockton  who learns that in the caves of the countryside, a troglodyte is alive and might be able to be helped and even domesticated. She gets the creature to the surface and attempts to get him to breed, but runs into trouble as a few people oppose this, especially a local businessman afraid of negative commercial consequences, Sam Murdock . Murdock frees the creature, leading to a rampage.Michael Lander  is a pilot who flies the Goodyear Blimp over NFL football games to film them for network television. Secretly deranged by years of torture as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, he has had a bitter court martial on his return and a failed marriage. He longs to commit suicide and take as many of the cheerful, carefree American civilians he sees from his blimp each weekend with him as possible. Lander conspires with Dahlia Iyad , an operative from the Palestinian terrorist group Black September, to launch a suicide attack using a bomb composed of plastique and a quarter million steel darts, housed on the underside of the gondola of the Goodyear Blimp, which they will detonate over the Miami Orange Bowl during Super Bowl X between Pittsburgh and Dallas. Dahlia and Black September, in turn, intend the attack as a wake-up call for the American people, to turn their attention and the world's to the plight of the Palestinians. American and Israeli intelligence, led by Mossad agent David Kabakov ([[Robert Shaw  and FBI agent Sam Corley , race to prevent the catastrophe. After discovering the recording Dahlia made, which was meant to be played after the attack, they piece together the path of the explosives into the country, and Dahlia's own movements. In a spectacular climax, the bomb-carrying blimp is chased by police helicopters as it approaches the packed stadium.The Soul of Nigger Charley continues the story of escaped slave Charley  and fellow ex-slave Toby . This time, the two friends help a group of ex-slaves earn freedom as they combat a ruthless ex-Civil War officer who wants to keep slavery alive by selling blacks to Southern plantation owners in Mexico.Chance  is a middle-aged man who lives in the townhouse of an old, wealthy man in Washington D.C. He seems simple-minded and has lived there his whole life tending the garden. Other than gardening, his knowledge is derived entirely from what he sees on television. When his benefactor dies, Chance is forced to leave and discovers the outside world for the first time. He wanders aimlessly, wearing his former employer's expensive clothes. Chance passes by a TV shop and sees himself captured by a camera in the shop window. Entranced, he steps backward off the sidewalk and is struck by a car owned by Ben Rand , an elderly business mogul. Rand's wife Eve  brings Chance to their home to recover. Drinking alcohol for the first time, Chance coughs as he tells them his name. "Chance the Gardener" is misheard as "Chauncey Gardiner". Judging by his appearance and manners, Rand assumes that Chance is an upper class, highly educated business man. Chance's style and seemingly insightful ways embody the qualities Rand admires. Chance's simplistic utterances about gardens are interpreted as allegorical statements about business and the state of the economy. Rand is also a confidant and adviser of the U.S. President , whom he introduces to "Chauncey". The president interprets Chance's remarks about how the garden changes with the seasons as economic and political advice. Chance, as Chauncey Gardiner, quickly rises to national public prominence. He becomes a media celebrity with an appearance on a television talk show and soon rises to the top of Washington society. Public opinion polls start to reflect just how much his "simple brand of wisdom" resonates with the jaded American public. Rand, dying of aplastic anemia, encourages Eve to become close to Chance. At his funeral, while the president delivers a speech, members of the board of Rand's companies hold a whispered discussion over potential replacements for the President in the next term of office. As Rand's coffin is about to be interred in the family mausoleum, they unanimously agree on "Chauncey Gardiner". Oblivious to all this, Chance wanders through Rand's wintry estate. He straightens out a pine sapling and then walks off across the surface of a small lake. The audience now sees Chance physically walking on water. He pauses, dips his umbrella into the water under his feet as if testing its depth, turns, and then continues to walk on the water as the president quotes Rand: "Life is a state of mind."A satire of network television, the movie follows the adventures of an ambitious mailroom clerk, Steven Post  at the fictional UBC Network who discovers his girlfriend Jennifer Scott's  pet chimpanzee has the supernatural ability to predict which television programs will receive the highest ratings, in which he blows a raspberry to shows that will bomb, or claps his hands in applause to shows that will be hits. Steven smuggles the chimp into the UBC building when he is being shown various movies to show, and watches as the chimp gives his vote from the camera room. However his first attempt proves unsuccessful as the executives do not agree with Steven's  prediction that a movie named "Devil Dan" will draw large audiences, so Post has to secretly enter UBC's footage room to switch the films, causing the executives to realize Steven was right in the first place when Devil Dan propels UBC to first place in the ratings war. Post successfully masks the chimp's abilities as his own and rises to vice president of UBC, now the top rated area network. However, this also creates suspicion and resentment among UBC executives, mainly because they believe Post is too young to merit the title of vice president. Their resentment reaches a breaking point at a television award ceremony where Steven Post receives the title of "Television's Man of the Year" and the emcee mistakenly identifies Post as the president of UBC. Fearing that Post's seemingly miraculous abilities will make their own jobs unnecessary, network executives E. J. Crampton  and Francis X. Wilbanks ([[Joe Flynn  attempt to discover his secret to success. One toady sees a bunch of bananas in Post's apartment, which leads to a humorous scene where the executives are seen eating bananas as they believe an idea that a New Guinea tribe considered bananas to be brain food. The flunky also hears sounds coming from Post's closet, and believes he is holding a hostage, which serves to intensify the surveillance of Post and his new luxury apartment. Using a spyglass to peer through his apartment window at night, the toady discovers the chimpanzee watching television with Post. Upon spying the chimp going to the refrigerator for a beer during the commercial break, the executives realize the chimpanzee's true abilities. Fearing the revelation that America's favorite TV programs were being picked by a primate would spell the end of television, the executives decide to steal the chimpanzee and return it to the jungle. Wilbanks and his chauffeur, Albert Mertons  venture out a narrow ledge in an attempt to snatch the chimp out of Post's apartment in his absence. The plan goes awry and the duo become stranded on the ledge until the police, fire department, and a Catholic priest arrive, mistaking their break in for a potential suicide. As a last-ditch effort, the network offers Post $1 million in exchange for the chimp, which he ultimately accepts. Jennifer becomes disenchanted with him when she finds out he sold her pet for money without her consent and breaks off their relationship. She also does not believe her chimpanzee should be released into the wild. Meanwhile, executives from every studio and camera crews crowd a cargo plane soaring over the jungle, as they prepare to parachute the chimp into an unexplored section of the Amazon; but before arriving at the intended disembarkation point, the stubborn chimpanzee, not wanting to be sent into the wild, pulls a lever opening an emergency hatch which sucks all the executives out of the plane, causing them to parachute into the jungle instead. Albert Mertons, who is now more sympathetic to Jennifer's feelings, reveals to Steven that the chimp outsmarted the executives and is now enroute back to the United States. Post uses this opportunity to refund the $1 million for the chimp. Post comments that UBC is going to need the money now in order to fund a search party for Wilbanks and the other executives. Jennifer and Steven have not only rekindled their relationship, but are now married and set off on their honeymoon with the chimpanzee in tow as their pet. The final scenes shows the Posts on an expressway which pans out in a wide scene, while a radio announcement says that Post has just married and resigned his vice presidency of UBC, but many people are wishing him well in his future endeavors.Inspired by true events, the plot takes place in 1951 and revolves around Mr. Caulfield, the owner of a coal mine. During Christmas, there are several explosions. His employees worry about their health and decide to strike, without any luck. One of the miners, Johnny, is determined to improve the working conditions and wants the other miners to have a great holiday. However, this goes terribly wrong when they are trapped underground following an explosion. Their family are desperate to save them, worrying there might be an even bigger and deadlier explosion.The film begins in a small village named Ramgarh, which is home to ex-policeman Thakur Baldev Singh . He summons an old colleague and requests him to track down a pair of small-time thieves he had once apprehended in the line of duty. Though the two petty criminals Veeru  and Jaidev  are notorious, the Thakur feels that they would be the ideal men to help him end the tyranny of Gabbar Singh , an infamous dacoit wanted by the authorities for a {{INR}}50,000 reward. After scenes show how the three fought together during a train robbery attempt, and how the criminals often get in and out of jail, and often settle their differences with a coin toss, Veeru and Jai are found and brought to Ramgarh. They are told by the Thakur that they are to hand over Gabbar alive to him for {{INR}}20,000, plus the {{INR}}50,000 reward. Three of Gabbar's enforcers arrive in Ramgarh to collect supplies from the defenseless villagers, but they go back empty-handed due to Veeru and Jai's intervention. In Gabbar's camp, the tyrant interrogates the three about why they were defeated by only two men. His psychotic nature is shown when he subjects his men to a game of Russian roulette, but eventually they are shot dead. Gabbar attacks Ramgarh during Holi, and in a tough battle, Veeru and Jai meet their match and are held at gunpoint. With his two recruits facing death, Thakur has a chance to throw a gun to Veeru. Instead of helping, he stands watching. With quick thinking, Veeru and Jai manage to save their lives. They then state their intentions to leave the villagers to defend themselves, due to the Thakur's cowardice. Before they can leave, Thakur tells them the real reason of why he wants Gabbar, and why he could not help them. Some time ago, Thakur had caught Gabbar and had him imprisoned only for him to escape and plot an evil revenge. Gabbar made his way to the Thakur's home and killed most of his family. The only person to survive this massacre was Thakur's younger daughter-in-law, Radha . Thakur tracked down Gabbar, but this time the tyrant held the upper hand due to his gang, and cut off both of Thakur's arms. Thakur had hidden this disability from Veeru and Jai, but now it was clear why he could not physically help them in the first place. Feeling sorry for Thakur, Veeru and Jai decided to forget the reward, though Jai swore on his word to Thakur that he and Veeru will bring Gabbar alive as promised. Living in Ramgarh, the cynical young Jai and lively Veeru find themselves growing fond of the villagers, especially two girls. Veeru is attracted to Basanti , a feisty, talkative young woman who makes her living by driving a horse-cart. Jai is drawn to Radha, Thakur's reclusive widowed daughter-in-law, who returns his affections but not overtly. Basanti and Veeru are captured and Jai follows. The three escape, but Jai is wounded by a gunshot, and with the bandits still following, they hide behind a rock at the foot of a bridge, due to shortage of ammunition. Jai orders Veeru to go back to the village with Basanti, and then return with some ammunition. Veeru, even though unaware of Jai's wound, hesitates, insisting that Jai return to the village instead, upon which Jai suggests that they resolve the matter by tossing a coin. The toss, as always seems to happen, is in Jai's favor, and Veeru heads back to the village with Basanti. Jai, slowly dying with only a few bullets remaining, manages to fend off advances by the bandits, and kills most of Gabbar's men. After failing in most of their advances , in one last attempt, the bandits throw a stick of dynamite, which lands on the bridge near him. Realizing he has only one bullet remaining, Jai blasts the bomb with that last shot from close range , so that the bridge blows up and the dacoits are unable to enter the village and catch Veeru before he could return safely. In the process, he sacrifices his own life for his friend's safety. Veeru returns to find Jai dying, and immediately wants to take him back, but Jai refuses. He sadly says on missing Veeru's marriage, and telling stories to Basanti's and Veeru's children. Some of the villagers rush to the scene, including Radha, who once again has to endure the anguish of losing someone. Veeru then notices Jai's coin lying on the ground, and, upon examination, discovers that both sides of the coin are same, and realizes that Jai has sacrificed his life for him and had cheated him on every coin toss, including the one that resulted in his demise. Veeru goes after Gabbar in a rage. He catches Gabbar, and almost beats him to death, when the Thakur appears and reminds Veeru of the promise to hand over Gabbar to him alive. Veeru is thinking about breaking the promise and killing Gabbar, when he is reminded that the promise was made by Jai and not him. Veeru tells Thakur that the only reason for him doing so was because it was Jai who made the promise, and leaves. Thakur then advances towards Gabbar, revealing spike-soled shoes, intended to torture and kill Gabbar who begs for life. Thakur severely assaults Gabbbar, destroying his hands, and finally pushing him to a post with protruding spikes, and achieving his vengeance. The film ends with Veeru, after Jai's funeral, leaving on a train. However, as he boards, he sees Basanti in one of the seats. As they embrace, the train steams off, with Thakur watching. <ref namehttp://homecinema.thedigitalfix.co.uk/content.php?contentidSholay  Region 0 DVD Review |accessdatethedigitalfix}}<ref namehttp://im.rediff.com/movies/2001/feb/07anu.htm |title7 February 2001 |work27 September 2010}}Three British  agents, including one "on loan" to the American government, are killed within 24 hours, under mysterious circumstances, while monitoring the operations of Dr. Kananga, the dictator of a small Caribbean island, San Monique. James Bond – agent 007, sometimes referred to as simply '007' – is sent to New York to investigate the first murder. Kananga is also in New York, visiting the United Nations. Just after Bond arrives, his driver is shot dead by a passing motorist, while taking Bond to meet Felix Leiter of the CIA. Bond is nearly killed in the ensuing car crash.  A trace on the killer's licence plate eventually leads Bond to Mr. Big, a ruthless and cunning gangster who runs a chain of Fillet of Soul restaurants throughout the United States. It is here that Bond first meets Solitaire, a beautiful virgin tarot expert who has the uncanny ability to see both the future and remote events in the present. Mr. Big, who is actually Kananga in disguise, demands that his henchmen kill Bond, but Bond overpowers them and escapes unscathed. Bond flies to San Monique, where he meets Rosie Carver, a CIA double agent. They meet up with a friend of Bond's, Quarrel Jr., who takes them by boat to Solitaire's home. Bond suspects Rosie of working for Kananga. She is shot dead, remotely, by Kananga, to stop her confessing the truth to Bond. Inside Solitaire's house, Bond uses a stacked tarot deck of cards, that show only "The Lovers", to trick her into thinking that seduction is in her future, and then seduces her. Solitaire loses her ability to foretell the future when she loses her virginity to Bond and is forced into cooperating with Bond to bring down Kananga. Bond and Solitaire escape by boat and fly to New Orleans. There, Bond is captured by 'Mr. Big', who reveals himself to be Kananga. It transpires that Kananga is producing two tons of heroin and is protecting the poppy fields by exploiting locals' fear of voodoo and the occult. Through his alter ego, Mr. Big, Kananga plans to distribute the heroin free of charge at his Fillet of Soul restaurants, which will increase the number of addicts. Kananga also believes that other drug dealers, namely the Mafia, cannot compete with his giveaway, to which Kananga can later charge high prices for the heroin, after he has simultaneously cultivated huge drug dependency and bankrupted his competitors. Kananga asks Bond if he has slept with Solitaire. When he finds out that he has, Kananga turns Solitaire over to Baron Samedi to be sacrificed, as her ability to read tarot cards is gone. Meanwhile, Kananga's one-armed henchman, Tee Hee Johnson, leaves Bond to be eaten by crocodiles at a farm in the Louisiana backwoods. Bond escapes by running along the animals' backs to safety. He sets the farm on fire and steals a speedboat. He is then pursued by Kananga's men, as well as local Sheriff J.W. Pepper and the Louisiana State Police. Back in San Monique, Bond rescues Solitaire from the voodoo sacrifice with a .44 Magnum Smith & Wesson Model 29 revolver and throws Samedi into a coffin of snakes. Bond and Solitaire escape below ground into Kananga's lair. Kananga captures them both and proceeds to lower them into a shark tank. Bond escapes and forces a shark gun pellet into Kananga's mouth, causing him to blow up like a balloon, float to the top of the cave, and explode. After the job is done, Felix puts Bond and Solitaire onto a train and out of the country. Tee Hee Johnson follows Bond and Solitaire onto the train and tries to kill Bond, but loses his prosthetic arm in a fight with him and is flung out of the window. As the film ends, Bond comforts Solitaire, and a laughing Samedi is revealed perched on the front of the speeding train.Jake Van Dorn  is a prosperous local businessman in Grand Rapids, Michigan who has strong Calvinist convictions.Kevin Jackson , Schrader on Schrader and Other Writings, Faber & Faber, 2004 . A single parent, Van Dorn is the father of a seemingly quiet, conservative teenage girl, Kristen, who inexplicably disappears when she goes on a church-sponsored trip to California. A strange private investigator, Andy Mast  from Los Angeles, is hired, eventually turning up a 8mm stag film of his daughter with two young men. Van Dorn then suspects that his daughter was kidnapped and forced to join California's porno underworld. His quest to rescue her takes him on an odyssey through this sleazy adult subculture. Getting no results from the PI, the police or even from Los Angeles' adult shopkeepers and "rap parlor" women, a desperate Van Dorn ends up posing as a pornography producer, hoping to find information about his daughter. A straggly actor named "Jism Jim", who was in the film with Kristen, knows where she might be and sends him to a sometime porno actress/hooker named Niki . Van Dorn hires Niki to accompany him on the search for Kristen. Chasing a rumor that Kristen was now filming porn in Mexico, their uneasy alliance moves from L.A. to San Diego. They gradually warm to each other: Niki feels protected by Van Dorn because he is a man who doesn't see her as merely a sex object, and he is able to speak openly to her about his deepest feelings, such as his wife divorcing him. The unlikely pair ends in San Francisco where Van Dorn finds that Kristen may be in the hands of Ratan, a very dangerous porn player who deals in the world of "snuff movies." Yet when Niki refuses to give the address of a porn industry player to Van Dorn, he loses his temper and strikes her. He immediately regrets his action, but the rapport between Van Dorn and Niki is clearly damaged. Van Dorn and Mast track Ratan to a nightclub where he and Kristen are observing a live sex show. When Van Dorn confronts Ratan, Kristen flees and Ratan slashes Van Dorn with a knife. Mast shoots and kills Ratan. Van Dorn tells Kristen he'll take her home from the people he believes forced her into pornography. However, she responds with anger, stating that she entered porn of her own volition and now felt loved and appreciated in a way that the emotionally distant Van Dorn was unable to offer. Despondent and tearful, Van Dorn promises to leave her alone if she truly prefers, but she relents and says she wants him to stay. The film thus ends on a bittersweet note: there is hope that father and daughter can repair their relationship, but Niki refuses to speak to Van Dorn and walks away, clearly resigned to her life on the streets as it's the only one she knows.Early in the Second Age of Middle-earth, elven smiths forged nine Rings of Power for mortal men, seven for the Dwarf-Lords, and three for the Elf-Kings. At the same time, the Dark Lord Sauron made the One Ring to rule them all after learning the secrets of how to forge them from the Elves of Hollin—a deviation from Tolkien's work in which Sauron taught ring lore to the Elves and forged all the rings except the three Elvish rings. As the Last Alliance of Elves and Men fell, the Ring fell into the hands of Prince Isildur from across the sea, and after Isildur was killed by orcs, the Ring lay at the bottom of the river Anduin. Over time, Sauron captured the nine Rings made for men and turned their owners into the Ringwraiths, terrible beings who roamed the world searching for the One Ring. The Ring was found by a Stoor named Déagol, whose friend, Sméagol, murdered him and stole it for himself. The Ring warped Sméagol into a twisted, gurgling wretch known only as Gollum , and he wandered with it to a cave in the Misty Mountains. Hundreds of years later, the hobbit Bilbo Baggins  accidentally discovered his "precious" Ring and took it back with him to the Shire. Years later, during Bilbo's birthday celebrations in the Shire, the wizard Gandalf  tells him to leave the Ring for Frodo Baggins . Bilbo agrees, and leaves the Shire. Seventeen years pass, during which Gandalf learns that the Shire is in danger: evil forces have discovered that the Ring is in the possession of a Baggins. Gandalf meets with Frodo to explain the Ring's history and the danger it poses to all of Middle-earth. Frodo leaves his home, taking the Ring with him. He is accompanied by three hobbit friends, Pippin , Merry , and Sam . After a narrow escape from the Ringwraiths pursuing them, the hobbits eventually come to Bree, where they meet Aragorn , who is first introduced to them as Strider, a friend of Gandalf's, who leads them the rest of the way to Rivendell. Frodo is stabbed atop Weathertop mountain by the chief of the Ringwraiths with a knife imbued with evil magic. Part of the knife stays inside him, and he gets sicker as the journey progresses. The Ringwraiths catch up with them shortly after they meet the elf Legolas , and at a standoff at the ford of Rivendell, the Ringwraiths are swept away by the enchanted river. At Rivendell, Frodo is healed by its lord, Elrond. He meets Gandalf again, held captive by his fellow wizard Saruman , who plans to join with Sauron but also wants the Ring for himself. Bilbo, Gandalf, and the others argue about what should be done with the One Ring, and Frodo volunteers to go to Mordor, where the Ring can be destroyed. Frodo sets off from Rivendell with eight companions: Gandalf; Aragorn; Boromir, son of the Steward of Gondor ; Legolas; Gimli the dwarf ; and Frodo's original three hobbit companions. Their attempt to cross the Misty Mountains is foiled by heavy snow, and they are forced to take a path under the mountains via Moria. Moria was an ancient dwarf kingdom, but is now full of orcs and other evil creatures, and Gandalf falls into an abyss while battling a balrog. The remaining eight members of the Fellowship continue through the elf-haven Lothlórien, but Boromir tries to take the Ring from Frodo. Frodo decides to leave the others behind and continue his quest alone, although faithful Sam insists on accompanying him. Boromir is killed by orcs while trying to defend Merry and Pippin. They are captured by the orcs, who intend to take them to Isengard through the land of Rohan. The hobbits escape and flee into Fangorn forest, where they meet Treebeard ([[John Westbrook , a huge tree-like creature. Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas find Merry and Pippin; they find small footprints and follow them into Fangorn Forest. There, they find Gandalf, whom they believed had died in the mines of Moria. The four ride to Rohan's capital, Edoras, where Gandalf persuades King Théoden  that his people are in danger. Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas then travel to the defensive fortification Helm's Deep. Frodo and Sam, meanwhile, discover Gollum stalking them, and capture him. Frodo pities him, and lets him live in return for guidance to Mount Doom. Gollum promises to lead them to a secret entrance to Mordor. At Helm's Deep, Théoden's forces struggle to resist an onslaught of orcs sent by Saruman. Gandalf arrives the next morning with the Riders of Rohan just in time, destroying the orc army.Michael  is an African-American teenager in South-Central Los Angeles, being raised by a single mother and beginning to drift away from school. Before long, Michael is running with a tough local street gang, the Kingsmen, who christen him with the nickname "Youngblood". Michael greatly looks up to the gang's leader, Rommel , an angry Vietnam War veteran who is beginning to accept the fact that he's getting to be too old to be involved in the street gang lifestyle. Shortly after Michael joins the Kingsmen, they move from merely battling other similar street gangs to becoming involved in a full-scale war against a local cartel of drug dealers. And, unknown to Michael and the Kingsmen, the head of the organization is Michael's own older brother.Arthur Goldman is Jewish and a Nazi death camp survivor. Now a rich industrialist, he lives in luxury in a Manhattan high-rise. He banters with his assistant Charlie, often shocking him with his outrageousness and irreverence about aspects of Jewish life. One day, Israeli secret agents kidnap Goldman and take him to Israel for trial on charges of being a Nazi war criminal. Goldman's trial forces his accusers to face not only his presumed guilt, but their own as well. At the end it appears that Goldman falsified the dental records which the Israelis used to identify him in order to bring about the trial. When the deception is revealed by the Israeli prosecutor, Goldman is left standing in the trial court's bulletproof glass box, a broken man. The stress shatters his mental health, and he becomes catatonic. He then relives in his mind a Nazi firing squad execution and dies.The film opens with a documentary-like scene in which white and black students argue about an impending student strike. Mark  says he is "willing to die, but not of boredom" for the cause, which draws criticism from the young white radicals. Following a mass arrest at the campus protest, Mark visits a police station hoping to bail his roommate out of jail. He is told to wait but goes to the lock-up area, asks further about bail for his roommate, is rebuffed, calls out to the arrested students and faculty and is arrested himself. He gives his name as Karl Marx, which a duty officer types as "Carl Marx." After he is released from jail, Mark and another friend buy firearms from a Los Angeles gun shop, saying they need them for "self defense" to "protect our women." In a downtown Los Angeles office building, successful real estate executive Lee Allen  reviews a television commercial for Sunny Dunes, a new resort-like real estate development in the desert. Instead of actors or models, the slickly produced commercial features casually dressed, smiling mannequins. In the next scene Allen talks with his associate  about the greater Los Angeles area's very rapid growth as the two drive through crowded streets. Mark goes to a bloody campus confrontation between students and police. Some students are tear-gassed and at least one is shot. Mark reaches for a gun in his boot and a Los Angeles policeman is seen being fatally shot, although it is unclear by whom.<ref name9E04E2DB1F3FE034BC4852DFB466838B669EDE Screen: Antonioni's 'Zabriskie Point'], The New York Times, 10 February 1970, retrieved 2 February 2010 Mark flees the campus and rides a city bus to suburban Hawthorne where, after failing to buy a sandwich on credit from a local blue collar delicatessen, he walks to Hawthorne Municipal Airport, steals a small plane and flies into the desert. Meanwhile Daria , "a sweet, pot-smoking post-teenybopper of decent inclinations,"moviecrazed.com, Out of the past, retrieved 2 February 2010 Later a California highway patrolman suspiciously questions Daria. Hidden behind a portable toilet meant for tourists, Mark takes aim and almost shoots the policeman but Daria stands between the two of them to block this, apparently saving the policeman's life before he drives away. Mark tells Daria the gun is unloaded, then shallowly buries it. Getting back to the stolen plane, they paint it with politically charged slogans and psychedelic colors. Daria pleads with Mark to travel with her and leave the plane, but Mark is intent on returning and taking the risks that it involves. He flies back to Los Angeles and lands the plane at the airport in Hawthorne; however, the police  are waiting for him. Patrol cars chase the plane down the runway. Rather than stopping, Mark tries to turn the taxiing plane around across the grass and is shot to death by one of the policemen. Daria soon learns about Mark's death on the car radio and drives to her boss Lee's lavish desert home, "a desert Berchtesgaden"The film focuses on an actual 1963 event in which Los Angeles Police Department detectives Karl Hettinger and Ian Campbell were kidnapped by criminals Greg Powell and Jimmy Smith  and taken to an onion field near Bakersfield, where Campbell was shot and killed and Hettinger managed to escape. Hettinger's eyewitness account leads to the arrest of the two men, who are tried and convicted of first-degree murder. While they languish on death row, Powell and Smith learn how to exploit the legal system and after a series of appeals their sentences are reduced to life imprisonment following a court decision abolishing executions in California. Meanwhile, Hettinger's physical condition and emotional state slowly deteriorate as his failure to act more aggressively on the night of the incident is questioned by those in authority and his fellow officers. Racked with guilt and remorse, he experiences nightmares, impotence, weight loss, kleptomania, and thoughts of suicide.When her government-agent boyfriend is shot down by members of a drug syndicate, Foxy Brown  seeks revenge. She links her boyfriend's murderers to a "modeling agency" run by Steve Elias ([[Peter Brown  and Miss Katherine . Foxy decides to pose as a prostitute to infiltrate the company, and helps save a fellow black woman from a life of drugs and sexual exploitation. This leads Foxy to a variety of revenge-themed setpieces &mdash; often violent and sexual &mdash; that range from cremating sex slave dealers to castrating a foe and presenting his severed genitals to his girlfriend.In 1987, NASA astronaut Captain William "Buck" Rogers is piloting the space shuttle Ranger 3 when he flies into an unexpected space phonomenon and is frozen for 504 years. In the year 2491, his shuttle is found drifting in space by the alien ship Draconia, which is headed to Earth for a trade conference, under the command of Princess Ardala and her aide de camp, Kane, a former native of Earth. Rogers is revived from his cryogenic sleep and is sent on his way home. It turns out though the Draconians are actually planning to conquer the Earth through staged pirate attacks on Earth's shipping fleet, forcing Earth to seek a treaty with the Draconians and unwittingly opening up their defenses to the invaders. They plant a homing beacon aboard Roger's shuttle to track a way past Earth's planet-wide defense shield. Buck is escorted to New Chicago, where he is interrogated and learns that Earth has been rebuilt over the centuries in his absence following a nuclear holocaust. While in New Chicago, he makes the acquaintance of Colonel Wilma Deering, an Earth defense officer, Dr. Huer, the leader of Earth's Defense Directorate, the AI computer Dr. Theopolis, and the robot drone Twiki who becomes his assistant. Against advice, Buck ventures outside the city to the ruins of old Chicago in an attempt to prove what he has been told is real. There he is accosted by several mutants, but is rescued by Wilma who arrives with a squad of troops. Buck returns to the Inner City, however, when the Draconian tracking device is found aboard his ship, the authorities accuse Buck of espionage. Buck claims the Draconians set him up, and eventually Deering decides to test Buck's claims by flying up to the Draconia and meeting Princess Ardala and Kane. Before Buck and his companions can discover some evidence about their true agenda, the Draconians stage a pirate attack on their own ship to throw off any suspicion. Initially, Deering's fighter squadron takes heavy losses due to their reliance on combat computers, which are easily outmaneouvered by the Draconians, but then Buck decides to use his old-fashioned dogfight training and easily defeats the attackers. At the official diplomatic reception, Ardala, who has taken a liking to Buck, invites him back to the Draconia, but Buck merely goes along to find out the truth behind the Draconians. After drugging Ardala, he explores the ship and discovers their plans to attack Earth, which is imminent. Dr. Theopolis and Twiki, who have followed Buck aboard, eventually meet up with him and alert Earth to the Draconian threat. Wilma immediately scrambles Earth's starfighters and attacks the Draconia, while Buck sabotages the Draconian bomber fleet prepared to attack Earth. During the battle, the Draconia is critically damaged, but Buck, Theopolis and Twiki are rescued again by Wilma before the ship explodes. Ardala and Kane also escape the Draconia's destruction in a shuttlecraft, and Kane vows to return and to take his revenge on Rogers.Luke, an escaped convict, and Jaroo, a loner gold prospector, team up with a band of Apache Indians in 19th century Mexico to capture a large, heavily armed fortress for the millions -- or billions -- of dollars in gold that are rumored to be stored within.IMDbTommy Chong plays Anthony 'Man' Stoner,Chong's character name is used only once. It is during the scene in which his father  berates him, and his mother  calls him "Anthony". a jobless, marijuana-smoking drummer who is told to either get a job by sundown or be sent off to military school by his parents. Anthony leaves the house in a Volkswagen Beetle convertible , a car which is subsequently left smoking on the side of the road. Anthony is picked up while hitchhiking by the equally enthusiastic smoker Pedro de Pacas . The license plate reads MUF DVR . They share a large joint, which Chong's character says is made with "mostly Maui wowie" and "Labrador" . Police find their car parked on a traffic median with them in it, discover that they are clearly high and arrest them. At trial, the pair are released on a technicality after the judge's water pitcher is discovered to be containing vodka. In an attempt to procure marijuana, they visit Pedro's cousin Strawberry , a Vietnam War veteran. They narrowly escape a police raid on Strawberry's house while Strawberry has a flashback and thinks the police are the Viet Cong, but are soon deported to Tijuana, by the INS , along with Pedro's relatives, who actually called the INS on themselves, so they could get a free ride to a wedding in Tijuana. In order to get back to the United States they arrange to pick up a vehicle from Pedro's uncle's upholstery shop, but arrive at the wrong address, a disguised marijuana warehouse. They end up unknowingly involved in a plot to smuggle a van constructed completely out of "fiberweed"  from Mexico to Los Angeles, with an inept police narcotics unit, led by the overly zealous Sgt. Stedenko  hot on their heels. Along the way, Pedro and Anthony pick up two women, who convince them to perform at a Battle of the Bands contest. Pedro and Man tell the women they need marijuana; the women convince them to see Gloria—a police dispatcher who sells drugs being held as evidence. Gloria informs the women she can't sell them any drugs as the police destroyed the evidence they were holding, but there should be some in stock soon as the police were searching all over town for a huge stash—which the police do not realize is currently sitting in the police station parking lot. They narrowly avoid arrest, at one point, after being pulled over by a police motorcyclist, but the officer gets high from the burning "fiberweed" emanating from the van's tailpipe, and lets them go after asking for a hot dog one of them was eating. The film concludes with the duo's band, Ay Les Voy , winning the contest, and a recording contract, with a performance of their song, Earache My Eye. They win after everyone, including the cops, get stoned due to a large amount of marijuana smoke from the burning van being funneled into the venue.The film focuses on three African-American youths living in an urban neighborhood. Nathaniel Hamilton is a star basketball player from the neighborhood, who also goes by the nickname of "Cornbread." In the movie, he epitomizes the dream of the neighborhood to be successful, as he is about to become the first from the community to enter college on an athletic scholarship. He is also a local hero to friends Earl Carter and Wilford Robinson. The plot thickens after a pick-up basketball game ends because of a heavy rain, and all the kids run to the local store and hang out, waiting for the rain to end. All the kids leave, except for Cornbread, Earl and Wilford. Earl and Wilford get into a playful argument about how fast Cornbread can run home. It is decided that Cornbread should make it home in 25&nbsp;seconds, so he runs off, after buying another soda for himself. Unbeknownst to all of them, an assault suspect is in the area, and is dressed similarly to Cornbread. The police are hot on the suspect's trail, but lose him in the rain. As the police are coming out of an alleyway, they see Cornbread running by and mistake him for the suspect they're looking for. Subsequently, Cornbread is shot in the back, and dies in the middle of the street. Wilford screams hysterically, and a riot ensues. The coroner's inquest is hampered by severe police intimidation, and no one knows anything about anything, except for Wilford, who becomes a man on the witness stand by telling exactly what he saw, in graphic detail.In 1872, Count Dracula  and his sworn enemy Lawrence Van Helsing  battle on the top of a runaway coach. It crashes and Dracula is impaled by one of the wheels. Van Helsing dies from his wounds. At that moment a follower of Dracula  arrives, collects Dracula's remains and, a few days later, buries them near Van Helsing's grave at St Bartolph's Church.  One hundred years later, a new generation of Britons appear who move the tale along: in this case, a group of young hippies that includes Jessica Van Helsing , granddaughter of Lorrimer Van Helsing , an occult expert and descendant of Dracula's old nemesis, and Johnny Alucard , who closely resembles the disciple of Dracula seen in 1872. Alucard persuades Jessica and the others to attend a black magic ceremony in the now abandoned, deconsecrated St Bartolph's, where he performs a bloody ritual involving one of their group, Laura Bellows . Jessica and the others flee in horror, after which Dracula is resurrected and kills Laura.  Laura’s body is discovered, drained of blood, and a police investigation begins, headed by an Inspector Murray ([[Michael Coles . Murray suspects an occult element and interviews Lorrimer Van Helsing, who is shocked to learn the details of Laura’s death. He realises that Johnny Alucard  is a disciple of Dracula, and that the Count must have returned. In the meantime, Alucard brings another of Jessica’s friends, Gaynor Keating ([[Marsha Hunt , to St Bartolph’s, where she is killed by Dracula and Alucard is himself turned into a vampire. The vampire Alucard kills a passer-by and lures Jessica’s boyfriend, Bob , to a café they frequent, where he turns him into a vampire as well. While Lorrimer is out, Bob goes to the Van Helsing house and persuades Jessica to come to the café, where he and Alucard capture her and take her to Dracula. Lorrimer tracks Alucard to his flat and kills him with the running water in the bathroom shower. He finds Bob's dead body and discovers Jessica in a trance at St Bartolph’s, where Dracula plans to take his revenge on the Van Helsing family by turning her into a vampire. Van Helsing sets a trap for Dracula and waits for him to return at nightfall. After a struggle, Dracula is killed by a fall into a pit of stakes that Van Helsing had previously prepared, and his spell over Jessica is broken. She embraces her grandfather and the title "Rest In Final Peace" is shown.Two young British officers arrive to join a prestigious regiment serving in India. One, Lieutenant Drake ([[Michael York , from a middle-class background, is extremely eager to make the right impression while the other, Lieutenant Millington ([[James Faulkner , the son of a General, is not taken with the idea of the army, and keen to get out as soon as he possibly can. Almost as soon as they arrive, Millington gets off on the wrong foot with his comrades, causing them to dislike him. A number of ladies associate with the regiment, many of them widows of officers who have died on active service. One of the most feted of these is Mrs Marjorie Scarlett, whose husband Captain Scarlett won a posthumous Victoria Cross after fighting on the North-West Frontier. [This would have been impossible, however, since the film is set in a period when the Victoria Cross was not awarded posthumously.] During an evening in the mess, involving the younger officers taking part in a ceremonial tradition that involves the pursuit and sticking of a pig, Mrs Scarlett runs in claiming to have been attacked, and identifies Lieutenant Millington as her attacker. Millington has clearly seen this as a quick way back to England, and is apparently not bothered by the disgrace. He does not co-operate with the officer selected to defend him, Lieutenant Drake, and is adamant in his refusal to deny his guilt. The trial, convened in secret by the officers of the regiment to protect reputations, is expected to be a formality. However, as the court begins to examine the open-and-shut circumstances of the case, a number of elements of doubt creep into the case including the nature of the attack, and the veracity of some of the evidence being given. This leads to Drake beginning to dig a little further, and having found a similar attack had taken place six months before, long before Millington had joined the regiment, he begins to suspect the culprit was in fact one of the other officers.In 1876, two orphans, Holly and Jason, travel across the Rocky Mountains to claim their inheritance at the end of the Oregon Trail. They run into Zachariah Coop, a gambler on the run from a group of angry men. Coop tries to join the two kids, but at first they don't know whether to trust him. The trio shows unyielding courage in the face of hardship, adventure and danger as they travel across the Great Divide to reach their dream.A young Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid are wannabe outlaws who find that breaking the law is not as easy as it seems.{{Expand section}} A Vietnam veteran who lives at the V.A. Hospital escapes and builds an underground fortress next to the highway. He keeps it decent and plans some other actions, including getting free light and phone service. While a few people and the police try to find him, Vrooder finds love with a doctor .The Vega homeworld has become unstable due to the exploiting of Vegatron, a powerful radioactive ore. Seeking to expand his militaristic empire and find a substitute planet to settle upon, the ruthless King Vega unleashes his armies — composed of flying saucers and giant robotic monsters — and turns first against neighbors such as Fleed, a highly advanced but peaceful world. In a tragically ironic twist, the invaders' blitzkrieg turns against them: the once verdant, idyllic Fleed is turned into a radioactive wasteland. Too late, the only known survivor of the royal family, Prince Duke Fleed, manages to steal the Grendizer, the robotic embodiment of the Fleedian God of War, from the Vegan invaders who plan to use it to spearhead their invasion fleet. Grendizer is a giant robot that interfaces with Spacer , a flying saucer that enables the robot to fly. Fleeing Vegan space by flying at faster than light speed, Duke enters our solar system and switches course to Earth, making a rough landing in Japan, on the slopes of Mount Fuji. He is befriended by Doctor Umon, a noted scientist who oversees a research laboratory called the Space Science Lab near a small ranch. The kindly Umon takes in the young humanoid alien as his son, under the assumed name of Daisuke, and assists him in hiding Grendizer. Taking the name Daisuke Umon, Duke Fleed works at the ranch run by Danbei Makiba . Roughly two years later, Koji Kabuto returns to Japan after studying abroad in a flying saucer he personally designed and built, called the TFO. He heads to the Space Science Lab after hearing of multiple sightings of "flying saucers". He plans to contact the aliens if possible and make peace with them. Daisuke, however, scoffs at the notion and fears that these aliens, the Vegans, led by generals Blaki and Gandal, are preparing to attack Earth. Koji ignores his warnings and flies out to meet the incoming saucers, only to discover the horrible truth. In order to save Koji and protect his adoptive homeworld from destruction, Daisuke is forced to return to his true identity as Duke Fleed. He unearths Grendizer from its hiding place under the lab and sets off to fight his enemies. The Vegans establish a base on the far side of the Moon and start to attack Earth from there. Koji discovers Duke Fleed's true identity and their bitter rivalry soon turns to friendship. The daughter of Danbei Makiba, Hikaru, also discovers Daisuke's secret and becomes a pilot in order to assist him despite his objections. Later on, it is revealed that there were two more survivors from planet Fleed: Duke's younger sister Maria Grace Fleed and a man who had rescued her and fled to Earth, raising her under the guise of her grandfather. Caught in a crossfire between Grendizer and a Vegan beast, he reveals to Maria that she is the last survivor of the royal family of Fleed  before dying from his wounds. Maria swears revenge on Grendizer and its pilot. She tries to ambush Duke, Koji and Hikaru at the Space Science Lab, but the fight is short lived. Maria's attacks bring Duke's necklace  into view and the truth is revealed. The lost siblings are reunited at last and Maria becomes the last addition to the team. As the conflict nears its end, it is shown that Duke Fleed was engaged to King Vega's daughter, Princess Rubina, prior to the attack on Fleed. When Rubina discovers that planet Fleed is no longer polluted with Vegatron radiation and that her fiancé is alive and well, she rushes to Earth to bring him the good news. Unfortunately, one of King Vega's generals uses this opportunity to ambush Duke Fleed, and Rubina is killed when she takes a shot aimed at Duke. This makes Duke even more determined to wipe out the Vegan menace once and for all. King Vega decides to gather his remaining forces and make an all-out attack on Earth, destroying the Moon Base to coax his troops into fighting to the end and finally succeed in invading Earth and taking it as their new home planet. Duke and company go out to intercept them in Grendizer and the newly-designed space combat Spazers. After a fierce battle, they finally manage to destroy the Vegan mother ship along with King Vega himself. Soon afterwards, Duke and Maria bid a tearful farewell to Earth and their friends and return to help reconstruct planet Fleed.The film centers on the life of Tod Lubitch, who was born with an improperly functioning immune system. This means that contact with unfiltered air may kill him, so he must live out his life in incubator-like conditions. He lives with his parents, since they decided to move him from Texas Children's Hospital where he was being kept as a boy. He is constricted to staying in his room all his life, where he eats, learns, reads, and exercises, while being protected from the outside world by various coverings. As Tod grows up, he wishes to see more of the outside world and meet regular people his age. He is enrolled at the local school after being equipped with suitable protective clothing, similar in style to a space suit. He falls in love with his next door neighbor, Gina Biggs, and he must decide between following his heart and facing near-certain death, or remaining in his protective bubble forever. In the end, after having a discussion with his doctor who tells him he has built up some immunities which may possibly be enough to survive the real world, he steps outside his house, unprotected, he and Gina ride off on her horse.Billy Jack  goes to court facing an involuntary manslaughter charge stemming from events in the earlier film. He is found guilty and sentenced to a prison term. Meanwhile, the kids at the Freedom School—an experimental school for runaways and troubled youth on a Native American reservation in Arizona—vow to rebuild the school. They raise funds and acquire a new building, eventually starting their own newspaper and television station. Inspired by Nader's Raiders, they begin using the newspaper and TV station to conduct investigative reporting, angering several politicians and townspeople in the process with their exposes. The school's activities range from having their own search and rescue team, to artistic endeavors such as a marching band and belly dancing. This culminates with the school hosting a large marching band contest and arts festival, which they call "1984 is Closer Than You Think", to raise money for the school. Midway through the film, Billy Jack is released from prison and, trying to reconnect with his spiritual beliefs, begins a series of lengthy vision quests. He gets involved in a radical group on the reservation which is trying to oppose the federal de-recognition of their tribe and the turning of their tribal lands over to local developers. When one of the tribal members is arrested for poaching deer on what was formerly tribal land, the school comes to his defense. The school begins to hold hearings on Native rights and child abuse. One of the children at the school was abused by his father who cut off his hand in a fit of rage, and the school defies a court order to turn the boy back over to his father. The FBI begins visiting the school and taps their phones. As tensions mount between the school and the people in the nearby town, a mysterious explosion at the school knocks their television station off the air. The Governor calls a state of emergency and mobilizes the National Guard, and a curfew is established in town. The students respond by holding a parade in the town in violation of the curfew. On the way back to the school their bus breaks down and local townspeople confront the students and threaten to set their bus on fire. Billy Jack shows up during the incident to protect the students, and then comes to the rescue of a tribal member who is being harassed and beaten at a local dance in town. Near the end of the film, the National Guard is stationed around the school and is ordered to open fire on the students, killing four and wounding dozens more. The entire story is told in flashbacks by Jean Roberts , a teacher at the school, from her hospital bed after the shooting incident. The violence in the finale is a symbolic bookend to the massacre of Vietnamese civilians seen in the beginning of the film. During Billy's trial, he mentions the 1968 My Lai massacre and recalls, in a flashback scene, witnessing a similar incident while serving in Vietnam. This scene also reveals one glaring continuity error. In all four films, Billy Jack is described as an ex-Green Beret  soldier, yet in the flashback he and his fellow soldiers all have 101st Airborne Division shoulder patches on their uniforms. In the DVD audio commentary, Laughlin mentions he also wanted the bloody, disturbing finale to represent all the shooting incidents at college campuses  where police and National Guardsmen fired upon students during anti-war protest rallies.Trotsky had been forced to leave the Soviet Union in 1929. It is now 1940 and he is living in Mexico. He has not escaped the attention of the current ruler of the Soviet Union, Joseph Stalin, who sends out an assassin named Frank Jackson. The killer decides to infiltrate Trotsky's house by befriending one of the young communists in Trotsky's circle.{{Further2}} The plot of the animated production is in most respects similar to that of the book, which was already styled as a classic children's novel, and so is adapted in that vein for a younger audience; but certain plot points are significantly compressed due to the time limitations of the format. In addition, certain scenes are obviously edited for commercial breaks. In general, alterations include simple omission of additional detail, as the producers expressed their desire to adhere to the written text, including lyrics adapted from the songs in the book.Following the events of Planet of the Apes, time-displaced astronaut Taylor  and the mute Nova ([[Linda Harrison  are riding on horseback through the desert of the Forbidden Zone. Without warning, fire shoots up from the ground and deep chasms open. Confused by the strange phenomenon, Taylor investigates a cliff wall and disappears before Nova's eyes. Elsewhere in the Forbidden Zone, a second spaceship has crash landed after being sent to search for Taylor and his crew. Like Taylor's ship, it has traveled into Earth's distant future. However, surviving astronaut Brent  believes he has traveled to another planet. He encounters Nova and notices she is wearing Taylor's dog tags. Hoping Taylor is still alive, he rides with her to Ape City, where he is shocked to discover the simian civilization. He observes the gorilla General Ursus ([[James Gregory  leading a rally calling for the apes to conquer the Forbidden Zone and use it as a potential food source, against the objections of the orangutan Dr. Zaius ([[Maurice Evans . Brent is wounded by a gorilla soldier and taken by Nova to the home of the chimpanzees Cornelius  and Zira , who treat his wound and tell him of their time with Taylor. The humans hide when Dr. Zaius arrives and announces that he will accompany Ursus on the invasion of the Forbidden Zone. Attempting to flee the city, Brent and Nova are captured by gorillas. Ursus orders they be used for target practice, but Zira helps them escape. They hide in a cave which Brent soon discovers is the ruins of the Queensboro Plaza station of the New York City Subway, making him realize that he has travelled through time to Earth's post-apocalyptic future. After following a humming sound deeper into the underground tunnels, Brent begins to hear voices telling him to kill Nova. Entering the remains of St. Patrick's Cathedral, he finds a population of telepathic humans who worship an ancient nuclear bomb. Brent and Nova are captured and telepathically interrogated, and Brent reveals the apes are marching on the Forbidden Zone. The telepaths attempt to repel the apes by projecting illusions of fire and other horrors, as they had done to Taylor and Nova. Dr. Zaius sees through the illusions, however, and leads the ape army to the ruined city. With the apes closing in, the telepaths plan to detonate their "Divine Bomb" as a last resort. They hold a religious ceremony, at the height of which they remove their masks to reveal that they have been grotesquely mutated by centuries of exposure to nuclear fallout. Brent is separated from Nova and taken to a cell, where he finds Taylor. The mutant Ongaro  uses his telepathic powers to force Brent and Taylor to fight each other to the death. Nova escapes her guard and runs to the cell, screaming her first word: "Taylor!" This breaks Ongaro's concentration, freeing Brent and Taylor from his control. They then overpower and kill him. Brent describes the bomb the mutants worship and Taylor recognizes it as a "doomsday bomb", capable of destroying all life on the planet. The apes invade the subterranean city, killing Nova and making their way to the cathedral. They are confronted by Méndez ([[Paul Richards , who raises the bomb into activation position before being gunned down. Brent and Taylor attempt to stop Ursus from accidentally setting off the weapon, but Taylor is shot. Brent manages to kill Ursus before being shot dead by the gorillas. The mortally wounded Taylor pleads with Dr. Zaius for help, but Zaius refuses, saying that man is only capable of destruction. In his last moment, Taylor brings his hand down on the activation switch, triggering the bomb and wiping out all life on Earth.The only fragments remaining of the film today depict a dentist named Dr. Maxwell Payne making bloody experiments with his patients. He tries a woman, and after that the monster of the title shows up, roaring. In the following clip, the woman leaves, as Dr. Maxwell Payne searches for another victim.In the fictional country of Lugash, a mysterious thief breaks into the National Museum, sneaks past its elaborate security system, and makes off with the fabled Pink Panther diamond, leaving a white monogrammed glove with a gold-tinted "P" as a calling card. The Lugash Secret Police are brought in to investigate, and the Shah of Lugash requests the assistance of Inspector Clouseau . Clouseau has been demoted to beat cop by his boss, Chief Inspector Charles Dreyfus , who despises Clouseau to the point of obsession. However, the French government forces Dreyfus to reinstate Clouseau as Inspector of the Sûreté so that he can go to Lugash to investigate the theft of the Pink Panther. Clouseau's investigations at the Lugash National Museum, which he nearly destroys, lead him to believe that Sir Charles Lytton , the notorious Phantom, is re-creating the most famous heist of his career. Clouseau is delighted at this, and sees his chance to get revenge on Lytton for framing him and temporarily sending him to prison in the first film. Sir Charles, having read about the theft, realizes that he has been framed. He goes to Lugash to investigate and clear his name. Although Clouseau fails to uncover any leads concerning the theft, his bumbling allows him to survive several attempts on his life by a mysterious assassin. After staking out  Lytton Manor in Nice, Clouseau is tricked into leaving France. He follows Sir Charles' wife, Lady Claudine  to a resort hotel in Gstaad, Switzerland, where his attempts to investigate her repeatedly fail. Meanwhile, Sir Charles manages to discover the identity of the true thief - his wife . Because they were both bored with their quiet retirement, she stole the diamond for her own excitement, and sent her husband on a wild goose chase. Sir Charles makes a daring escape from Lugash and goes to Gstaad to find his wife and the diamond. Inspector Clouseau, who has unknowingly been on the trail of the real thief all along, receives a telephone call from Chief Inspector Dreyfus telling him to arrest Lady Claudine. However, when Clouseau calls Dreyfus back to ask why, he is informed that Dreyfus has gone on vacation and will not be back until the following week. Dreyfus, now revealed as the assassin trying to kill Clouseau, prepares to shoot him with a sniper rifle as soon as he enters Lady Claudine's room. Lady Claudine playfully confesses the theft to her husband, and hands the diamond over to him, so he can go about proving his innocence. They are cornered by Colonel Sharki  of the Lugash Secret Police, who intends to kill them both. It turns out he has been using the theft of the diamond as an excuse to purge his political opponents. Clouseau barges into the room to arrest the Lyttons. Sir Charles points out that Colonel Sharki is going to kill them all. Suddenly, Dreyfus opens fire on the room, and accidentally kills Sharki while aiming at Clouseau, who ducks at the last minute to check his fly. The Lyttons escape during the fray. For his work in recovering the Pink Panther, Clouseau is promoted to Chief Inspector, and vows to bring Sir Charles to justice. Lady Claudine's fate is not revealed to the audience, but it is implied she was not arrested. Dreyfus is committed to a lunatic asylum, where he is straitjacketed and placed inside a Padded cell, vowing revenge on Clouseau as the animated Pink Panther enters the room.In 1941 Lt. Commander Jeffords, an American serving with the Royal Navy is assigned to Valletta, Malta to command a flotilla of Motor Torpedo Boats for a top secret mission. Jeffords is granted permission to take his friend Chief Petty Officer Yacov, a Palestinian with him. Through scrounging spare parts from sunken craft, the battered flotilla is able to piece together three seaworthy craft. Jeffords' mission is to destroy a former Italian submarine base in Augusta, Sicily that now contains the German's Fritz X glide bombs that have been taking a heavy toll of British shipping. As the bombs are stored in former submarine pens tunnelled inside a mountain, an aerial attack is unfeasibile. It is up to Jeffords to determine how he will accomplish his mission. Off duty Jeffords meets a woman bathing in the nude who turns out to be the wife of his commanding officer. Jeffords turns down her offer of having an affair. Jefford first decides to make a reconnaissance of his target by being taken into the base by the Sicilian Resistance. Jefford's mission is successful, but at the cost of the lives of his Resistance escort. Jefford schemes to capture a German E-Boat in a manner similar to Commander Ian Fleming's Operation Ruthless. By sending a false radio message that General Alexander's airplane has gone missing in a certain area, Jefford and crew pose as survivors of the crash then capture the boat attempting to pick them up. Jefford uses the captured craft as a Trojan Horse to penetrate the harbour, having the other boats in the flotilla follow his captured craft in once the Germans have lifted their boom gate. Jefford and two others don Scuba sets to swim into the tunnels and plant explosive charges. The Allied invasion of Sicily took place in July 1943.The basic plot involves people who are captured by Big-foot. There is a group of hunters trying to hunt down big foot, bumbling at first, but in terms of rescuing the captured women, and capturing the gigantic 'King of the Woods' alive for public exhibition for profit victorious  in the end. It also involves "cool" college students riding cheap imported motorcycles to rescue the captured young women. In the middle of the film, the skeptical sheriff's department and the ranger's station are notified of the women's disappearance, but to no avail on the part of the authorities with respect to actually searching for the missing women. The unlikely heroes in the very end are a hardy, gun-toting old mountain man who had previously lost one of his arms during a historical encounter  with the gigantic, erect animal and one of the idiotic dynamite-armed bike riders. The old man hero's wife, an Indian squaw, prophesies "bad medicine"  just before the final man-vs.-Bigfoot showdown. Note: some or all of the outdoor scenes may have been shot near Red Bluff in Northern California because the lady  piloting the junky-looking airplane calls "Red Bluff Radio" during the distress transmission. Tehama County, CA is mountainous wilderness where some Sasquatch sightings have been known to have occurred.The films opens with a trio of grave robbers  delivering a corpse to Baron Frankenstein  and his assistant Dr. Marshall , for obvious reanimation purposes. Baron Frankenstein's daughter Tania  arrives from school, having completed her studies in medicine, and is greeted by her father and his servant, the handsome but mildly retarded Thomas. Tania reveals to her father that she has always understood his work with "animal transplants" to be a cover for his work reanimating corpses, and that she intends to follow in his footsteps and help him in his work. The next day, Frankenstein, Tania, and Marshall witness the execution of a criminal who is hanged down a well, and it is implied that his body will be harvested for their experimentation. Law enforcement agent Captain Harris  arrives to harass Lynch at the hanging. Harris claims to be on to Lynch's grave robbing. That evening, having harvested salient body parts, Frankenstein and Marshall successfully reanimate a corpse  as Tania secretly watches. The Monster, however, bear-hugs Frankenstein to death almost instantly, then walks out of the castle. Tania and Marshall report the murder to Harris, but claim that it was a burglar. Meanwhile, the narrative is interspersed with shots of the Monster roaming the countryside killing locals, including Lynch. Tania then goads Marshall into admitting harboring romantic feelings for her. She responds to his affections, but says that while Marshall's body is old, she finds the body of Thomas young and attractive. The "solution" to this situation will be to transplant Marshall's brain into Thomas's body. To accomplish this, Tania seduces Thomas, and Marshall kills him during their lovemaking with a pillow. Tania then transplants Marshall's brain into Thomas's body. The local villagers, however, have had enough and arrive to destroy the castle, replete with torches and pitchforks. In the chaos, the Monster arrives and has a fight against Marshall/Thomas and Tania. The Monster is defeated, but Tania's allegiance during the fight is highly suspect. Harris arrives with Thomas's sister to see Tania and Marshall/Thomas enjoying post-fight sexual intercourse. However, during their lovemaking, Marshall/Thomas strangles Tania to death, and the film ends.The story begins in the Central Jail, where a prisoner  being hanged in the morning is desperately bewailing his fate. His fears are soothed somewhat by another inmate named Chetan  who tells him that he is not dying but starting a new life elsewhere in a body free from sin. The principle comforts the prisoner and jail inmate becomes happy. Chetan has served a 10 year long sentence for murder and is about to be released early for good behavior. The Jailor  is curious how such an obviously empathetic and honest man as Chetan has proved to be could be a murderer as well, and he asks Chetan to explain. Initially Chetan refuses gently but then starts disclosing his past. Chetan is a penniless poet while Sunita is the daughter of a wealthy man . Both are very much in love. Chetan’s close friend Bansi  thinks Chetan should use his education to get a job to keep the creditors from his door, but Chetan wants to continue writing books and develop his habit of writing stories with Sunita’s full support. Sunita fears to talk before her father. Her rich father has the reason for being a stubborn father too and that is that he was a poor man and his wife had died because he could not afford proper medical facilities for her only because he could not afford them and this has made him more ambitious in life. So Sunita's father has throughout his life concentrated more on building his house and earning more money for a secure future but all this at the cost of a complete disconnect personally between him and Sunita. Sunita’s father decides to get her married off to a man named Gopal , a doctor. Gopal and his mother  meet Sunita in her house for the first time and they like her. Her dad decides to announce their engagement at the birthday party. Meanwhile Sunita urges Chetan to ask her hand to her father on her birthday and she invites him for that party.At the party her father is rude to Chetan and then announces her engagement to Gopal — she swallows her anger in order to maintain a good front before the guests, but later goes in search of Chetan at his home. Sunita tells Chetan that they should elope and go far away from her parents and live a separate world of theirs. Chetan says why should they elope instead they should go together to her father and tell him that they want to get married to each other and that Chetan will take care of Sunita. Sunita does agree with him but tells Chetan that this idea of his won't help as her father may attack or kill Chetan. To this Chetan replies that its completely unethical to run away from problem and in this case from her father as it would bring dishonour to Sunita and even to their own love story. Chetan promises that if her father refuses to give his permission they will get married anyway.So Chetan advices her to go back home and that Chetan would marry her after trying to convince her father. Chetan points out that society will disapprove and she might regret it someday. To this Sunita declares that Chetan is a coward and a selfish person who does not want to share a bit of sorrow that her parents did not approve of their relation and take a risk by running away and start a life together, when she left her wealth and family and came to him. Sunita says she did not think of anything except her love for Chetan and came running with her belongings to Chetan's house. That shows she is selfless in this love affair. So by this logic she tells Chetan that she would now marry Gopal only as Chetan has belittled their love and her ability to make choice. Sunita marries Gopal and they live happily but one day she discloses her husband that she was in love with a person in her college days. Gopal gets angry and hurt so starts drinking wine and confides his problem to a friend in bar Mahinder and goes off to England for years to further his medical studies, abandoning Sunita to bring up their son Munna  and take care of his mother. Chetan meanwhile channels his despair into writing and becomes critically renowned and popular; one of his biggest fans is Sunita’s mother-in-law. His greatest work is a novel called Tyaag—the story of his romance with Sunita. Five years pass after Sunita's marriage and Gopal decides to return to India as he by now realises that Sunita is a good mother and a good daughter-in-law and so decides to mend their marriage life. Sunit's child then runs away from home in search of his father and boards a train. There he meets a passenger and he turns out to be Chetan. Chetan realises that the child is innocent and decides to lodge a police complaint. On this child being smart and hyperactive decides to run away from him. But Chetan catches him and promises him to take him to England. Munna agrees to go home now provided Chetan takes him home. Sunita gets angry on seeing Chetan. She tries her best to throw him out of her life. Rest of the story is about the dilemma which Sunita faces. Will Chetan avenge his failed love affair with her in the past by destroying her present married life? Will Chetan avail of the opportunity of Gopal's absence to molest her? Is Chetan really in love with her child? What will happen to her life when her husband returns? This forms the rest of the story.This film is set in Harlem, of which 110th Street is an informal boundary line. By-the-book African-American Lieutenant William Pope  has to work with crude, racist but streetwise Italian-American Captain Frank Mattelli  in the NYPD's 27th precinct. They are looking for three black men who slaughtered seven men&mdash;three black gangsters and two Italian gangsters, as well as two patrol officers&mdash;in the robbery of $300,000 from a Mafia-owned Harlem policy bank. Mafia lieutenant Nick D'Salvio  and his two henchmen are also after the hoods. Paul Benjamin plays the troubled Jim Harris, who is the last of the surviving robbers; he makes his choice in the emotional climax. In one of many violent scenes, D'Salvio finds getaway driver Henry J. Jackson  and brutalizes him in a Harlem whorehouse.The film tells the story of three young friends whose passion in life is surfing. The friends include: Matt , a self-destructive type who has a devil-may-care attitude; Jack Barlowe , the calm and responsible one of the bunch; and Leroy "The Masochist" Smith , whose nickname tells a lot about his personality. Their surfing lives are traced from the summer of 1962 to their attempts of dodging the Vietnam War draft in 1965 , and to the end of their innocence in 1968 when one of their friends is killed in Vietnam. The three make the difficult transition to adulthood with parties, surf trips, marriage, and the war. The friends reunite years later, after Barlowe has served time in Vietnam, for the "Great Swell of '74." With this reunion, the transitions in their lives becomes the end point of what the 1960s meant to so many as they see that the times have changed, and what was once a time of innocence is forever gone.A severe drought strikes the town of Bellbird. Young reporter Philip Henderson arrives and stirs old tensions. The locals rally together and hold a fund-raising gymkhana.In a prologue, pompous film director Eric Von Leppe  is shooting a skydiving sequence for low-budget Miracle Pictures in which an actress is killed. Candy Wednesday  arrives in Los Angeles to make it as an actor. She gets an agent, Walter Paisley , but struggles to find work until she inadvertently gets involved in a bank robbery as a getaway driver. This gets her a job for Miracle Pictures as a stunt driver. She meets Eric Von Leppe, temperamental starlet Mary McQueen , sleazy producer PG  and friendly scriptwriter, Pat . Candy and Pat fall in love and she starts to get work as an actor, becoming friends with fellow starlets Bobbi  and Jill . Everyone goes to the Philippines to make a movie, Machete Maidens of Mora Tau, starring Candy, Mary, Bobbi and Jill. Candy has to play a character who is raped which upsets her. Later on during the shoot, Jill, Bobbi and PG have a threesome. During the filming of a battle sequence, Jill is shot dead by an unseen attacker. Back in the US, Candy, Walter and Pat all go to see Machete Maidens at a local drive in, where the projectionist tries to rape Candy but she is rescued by Walter. While shooting a chase scene in a science fiction film, Mary, Candy and Jill are almost killed in a car accident. Jill is called back to the studio late at night and is stabbed to death. Candy begins to suspect Patrick is the killer. But it turns out the real culprit is Mary. She tries to kill Candy at the Hollywood Sign but it falls on her and crushes her to death. Candy is reunited with Pat and becomes a film star.After escaping from a military prison, rogue Air Force general Lawrence Dell  and accomplices Powell and Garvas infiltrate an ICBM complex and gain launch control over its nine nuclear missiles. They then make direct contact with the US government  and demand both ten million dollars ransom and, more importantly, that the President  go on national television and make public the contents of a top-secret document. The document, which is unknown to the current president but not to certain members of his cabinet, contains conclusive proof that the US government knew there was no realistic hope of winning the Vietnam War but continued fighting it for the sole purpose of demonstrating to the Soviet Union their unwavering commitment to defeating communism. While the President and his Cabinet debate the practical, personal, and ethical aspects of agreeing to these demands, they also authorize the military to send an elite team led by General MacKenzie  to penetrate the ICBM complex and incinerate its command center with a low-yield tactical nuclear device. When this attempt is discovered, the hostage-takers respond by initiating a missile launch. As the military and President Stevens watch the underground missile silo launch covers begin to open, they agree to call off the attempt and the launch is aborted. Eventually the President agrees to meet the demands, which include allowing himself to be taken hostage and used as a human shield while Dell and his team make their escape from the complex. As the president leaves the White House he asks the Secretary of Defense to release the document should he be killed in the process. US Air Force snipers kill the general but also shoot the President, who with his dying breath asks the Secretary of Defense if he will release the document. The Secretary can not bring himself to answer.Monty Python and the Holy Grail loosely follows the legend of King Arthur. Arthur  along with his squire, Patsy , recruits his Knights of the Round Table, including Sir Bedevere the Wise , Sir Lancelot the Brave , Sir Robin the Not-Quite-So-Brave-As-Sir-Lancelot  and Sir Galahad the Pure . On the way Arthur battles the Black Knight  who, despite having had all his limbs chopped off, insists he can still fight. They reach Camelot, but Arthur decides not to enter, as "it is a silly place". They are instructed by God  to seek out the Holy Grail. Their first stop is a French-controlled castle where they believe the Grail is being held. After being insulted in mangled Franglais, they try to sneak into the castle in a Trojan Rabbit, but this plan goes terribly wrong when they forget to hide inside it first, and the rabbit is subsequently catapulted back at them. Arthur then decides the group should separate to seek the Grail. Concurrently, in a manner of "breaking the fourth wall", a modern-day historian is describing the Arthurian legend for a television program. He is suddenly killed by a knight on horseback, triggering a police investigation. Each of the Knights encounters various perils on their quest. Arthur and Bedevere attempt to satisfy the strange requests of the dreaded Knights who say Ni. Sir Robin narrowly avoids a fight with the Three-Headed Giant by running away while the heads are arguing, causing embarrassment as the bard following him sings "Brave Sir Robin ran away". Sir Lancelot accidentally assaults a wedding party at Swamp Castle, mistakenly believing them to be holding a lady against her will, only to discover an effeminate boy. Galahad is led by a Grail-shaped beacon to Castle Anthrax, populated only by women who wish to perform sexual favours for him, but is "rescued", somewhat against his will, by Lancelot. The Knights regroup and travel to see Tim the Enchanter , who points them to caves where the location of the Grail is written on the walls. To enter the caves, the group is forced to defeat the Rabbit of Caerbannog using the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. They enter the cave and are attacked by the Legendary Black Beast of Aaaaarrrrrrggghhh, which devours Brother Maynard. Arthur and his Knights flee and barely escape by virtue of the beast's animator suffering a fatal heart attack. With their final destination known, the group travels to its last peril, the Bridge of Death, where each Knight is forced to answer three questions by the bridge-keeper  before they can cross the Gorge of Eternal Peril; Sirs Robin and Galahad fail and are thrown into a chasm below. Arthur, at his turn, accidentally tricks the bridge-keeper, who is thrown into the chasm himself. Lancelot becomes separated from Arthur and Bedevere, and is later shown being arrested by police for the murder of the historian. Arthur and Bedevere travel to the Grail castle, which turns out to be occupied by the same French forces who insulted and drove them off earlier. The Knights amass a large army and prepare to storm the castle, but just as they begin to charge, the modern police arrive on the scene. Arthur and Bedevere are arrested, and one of the officers knocks the film out of the camera, putting an abrupt end to the movie. There are no end credits, only several minutes of organ music.The sicarius Tony Arzenta, after deciding to get out, saw killing his wife and daughter. So start planning his revenge.{{cite book}}After a dying Voodoo queen, Mama Loa, chooses an adopted apprentice, Lisa Fortier  as her successor, her arrogant son and true heir, Willis, ([[Richard Lawson  is outraged. Seeking revenge, he buys the bones of Mamuwalde the vampire from the former shaman of the voodoo cult, and uses voodoo to resurrect the vampire to do his bidding. However while it bring Mamuwalde back to life, he quickly bites Willis upon awakening. Willis now finds himself in a curse of his own doing, made into a vampire hungering for blood and. ironically, a slave to the very creature he sought to control. Meanwhile, Justin Carter ([[Don Mitchell , an ex-police officer with a large collection of acquired African antiquities and an interest in the occult, begins to investigate the murders caused by Mamuwalde and his growing vampire horde. Justin meets Mamuwalde at a party Justin hosted to display the African collection pieces before being moved to the University's museum. They discuss the artifacts, unbeknown to anyone else, that were from the region of Africa Mamuwalde hails from, including pieces of jewelry once worn by his late wife Luva. Mamuwalde also meets Justin's girlfriend, Lisa Fortier, at the party and he discovers that Lisa is naturally adept at voodoo. Lisa discovers Mamuwalde true nature after a friend of hers, Gloria, falls victim to his bite and resurrects as a vampire who nearly feeds on her if not for Mamuwalde's intervention. He later asks her for help to cure him of his vampire curse. Justin, with the help of L.A.P.D. Lieutenant Harley Dunlop , pulls together several other cops to go to the Mamuwalde residence to investigate the recent deaths. While Lisa is performing the ritual to cure Mamuwalde, using a voodoo doll fashioned to look like him, Justin, Harley and their men raid the house, fighting against Blacula's vampire minions which include several friends of theirs. Willis is killed during this scuffle. Justin manages to find Lisa and Mamuwalde and interrupts the ritual. Lisa refuses to help Mamuwalde after she witnesses him kill the other police officers in the house in a fit of rage. As Mamuwalde, now calling himself Blacula, is about to bite Justin, Lisa stabs the prince's voodoo doll killing Mamuwalde and destroying the menace of Blacula forever.In an abandoned river boat in Devil's Bayou, Penny, a young orphan, drops a message in a bottle containing a plea for help into the river. The bottle is carried out to sea and washes up in New York City, where it is recovered by the Rescue Aid Society, an international mouse organization inside the United Nations. The Hungarian representative, Miss Bianca, volunteers to accept the case and chooses Bernard, a stammering janitor who has triskaidekaphobia, as her co-agent. The two visit Morningside Orphanage, where Penny lived, and meet an old cat named Rufus. He tells them about a woman named Madame Medusa who once tried to lure Penny into her car and may have succeeded in abuducting Penny this time. The mice travel to Medusa's pawn shop, where they discover that she and her partner, Mr. Snoops, are on a quest to find the world's largest diamond, the Devil's Eye. They also discover that Mr. Snoops is in the Devil's Bayou with Penny, whom they have indeed kidnapped. With the help of an albatross named Orville, and a dragonfly named Evinrude, the mice follow Medusa to the bayou. There, they learn that Penny was captured to enter a hole that leads down into the pirates' cave where the Devil's Eye is located. Miss Bianca's perfume inadvertently attracts the attention of Medusa's pet alligators, Brutus and Nero. Bernard and Miss Bianca flee and find Penny. The arrival of the two mice raises her morale. Together, the three devise a plan, which is put into action on the following day. Wanting to escape tonight, Bernard orders Evinrude to get Ellie Mae and the other local animals who loathe Medusa, which he accepts. However, in the middle of his quest, Evinrude is thwarted by a flock of hungry bats, delaying him. The following morning, Medusa and Mr Snoops send Penny down into a pirate's cave to find the gem, with Miss Bianca and Bernard hiding in her skirt pocket. The three soon find the Devil's Eye within a pirate skull; as Penny pries the mouth open with a sword, the mice push it out from within, but soon the oceanic tide rises and floods the cave. Miss Bianca, Penny, and Bernard barely manage to retrieve the diamond and escape. Medusa steals the diamond for herself, attempting to run off with the diamond, leaving Snoops without any shares, and hides it in Penny's teddy bear. When she trips over a cable set as a trap by Bernard and Bianca, Medusa loses the bear to Penny, who runs away with it. After a struggle with Snoops who already turned to her, Medusa retaliates with gunfire, causing the mice to flee until they are met by Brutus and Nero. With help from Ellie Mae and the other animals, Bernard and Miss Bianca trick them into entering a cage-like elevator, trapping them. Two of the gang set off Mr. Snoops's fireworks, making the boat sink. Meanwhile Penny and the mice commandeer Medusa's "Swampmobile", a motor-boat used by Medusa to travel in the swamp and resembling the front clip Ford Model T body mounted to a small boat, with a single tractor seat for the driver. They get it moving using Luke's homemade moonshine as fuel, while Medusa unsuccessfully pursues them, and is left clinging to the boat's smoke stacks with Brutus and Nero trying to eat her below  while Snoops is seen rafting away while laughing. Back in New York, the Rescue Aid Society watch TV to hear that the Devil's Eye is given to the Smithsonian Institution and Penny is adopted by a new father and mother. Bernard and Miss Bianca remain partners in the Rescue Aid Society's Missions. Soon there is another call for help and they depart on Orville, accompanied by Evinrude, to a new rescue mission.Caligula , the young heir to the throne of the syphilis-ridden, half-mad Emperor Tiberius , thinks he has received a bad omen after a blackbird flies into his room early one morning. Shortly afterward, Macro , the head of the Praetorian Guards, appears to tell the young man that his great uncle  demands that he report at once to the Island of Capri, where Tiberius has been residing for a number of years with a close friend Nerva , a dim-witted relative Claudius , and Caligula's younger stepbrother Gemellus  . Fearing assassination, Caligula is afraid to leave, but his beloved sister Drusilla  convinces him to go. At Capri, Caligula finds his uncle has become depraved, showing signs of advanced venereal diseases, and embittered with Rome and politics. Tiberius enjoys watching degrading sexual shows, often including children and various freaks of nature. Caligula observes with a mixture of fascination and horror. Tensions rise when Tiberius jokingly tries to poison Caligula in front of Gemellus. After Nerva commits suicide on the prospect of Caligula's rule, Tiberius collapses from a stroke, leaving Macro and Caligula planning a way to hasten the latter's ascent to the throne. Late one night, Macro escorts all the spectators out of Tiberius' bedchamber to allow Caligula the opportunity to murder his uncle, but when he fails, Macro finishes the deed himself by strangling Tiberius with a scarf. Caligula triumphantly removes the imperial signet from Tiberius's finger and suddenly realizes that Gemellus has witnessed the murder. Tiberius is buried with honors and Caligula is proclaimed the new Emperor; he in turn proclaims Drusilla his equal, to the apparent disgust of the Senate. Afterwards, Drusilla, fearful of Macro's influence, convinces Caligula to get rid of him. Caligula obliges by setting up a mock trial in which Gemellus is intimidated into testifying that Macro alone murdered Tiberius. With the powerful Macro gone, Caligula appoints Tiberius's former adviser Longinus  as his right-hand man, and pronounces the docile Senator Chaerea  as the new head of the Praetorian Guard. Drusilla endeavors to find Caligula a wife amongst the priestesses of the goddess Isis, the cult they secretly practice. Caligula only wants to marry Drusilla, but when she refuses because she is actually his sister, he spitefully marries Caesonia , a known courtesan, but only after she bears him an heir. Caligula proves to be a popular but eccentric ruler, cutting taxes and overturning all the oppressive laws that Tiberius enacted. The Senate begins to dislike the young emperor for his eccentricities and various insults directed towards them. Darker aspects of his personality begin to emerge as well; he rapes a bride and groom on their wedding day because of a minor fit of jealousy, and orders the execution of Gemellus merely to provoke a reaction from Drusilla. After he discovers Caesonia is pregnant, Caligula suffers severe fever, but Drusilla nurses him back to health. Just as he fully recovers, Caesonia bears him a daughter, Julia Drusilla, and Caligula marries her on the spot. During the celebration, Drusilla collapses in Caligula's arms from the same fever he'd suffered. Soon afterwards, Caligula receives another ill omen in the guise of a black bird. He rushes to Drusilla's side and watches her die. Caligula has a nervous breakdown; he smashes a statue of Isis and drags Drusilla's body around the palace while screaming hysterically. Now in a deep depression, Caligula walks the Roman streets, disguised as a beggar; Caligula then causes a disturbance after watching an amateur performance mocking his relationship with Drusilla. After a brief stay in a city jail, Caligula proclaims himself a god and becomes determined to destroy the senatorial class, which he has come to loathe. His reign becomes a series of humiliations against the foundations of Rome; senators' wives are forced to work in the service of the state as prostitutes, estates are confiscated, the old religion is desecrated, and he initiates an absurd war on Britain to humiliate the army; the army never actually fights in Britain, but is ordered to attack stalks of papyrus on the shores. It is obvious to the senators and the military that Caligula must be assassinated, and Longinus conspires with Chaerea to carry out the deed. Caligula wanders into his bedroom where a nervous Caesonia awaits him. The blackbird makes a final appearance, but only Caesonia is frightened of it. The next morning, after rehearsing an Egyptian play, Caligula and his family are attacked as they leave the stadium in a coup headed by Chaerea. His wife and daughter are brutally murdered and Chaerea himself stabs Caligula in the stomach. With his final breaths, he defiantly whimpers "I live!" As Caligula and his family's bodies are thrown down the marble steps and their blood is washed off the marble floor, Claudius is proclaimed the new Emperor.A German SS officer  suspects that an officer  in command of a dam may not be the loyal Nazi he claims to be. In fact he is a British officer whose mission is to assist commandos in the destruction of the dam before D-Day.Charles Ambler, Wild East DVD Case, 2007. Last accessed: September 2008.On a camping trip in the mountains, a dad ([[Peter Graves  and his two teenage children are exploring a cave when a solar flare hits. After emerging, they soon find that everyone is dead, and there are only a few survivors left scattered across the country. Most, out of fear and survival, are out for themselves, but as they try to make their way home , they find two people that need their help as well as a man who invites them to be neighbors. They face dangers ranging from wild dogs, who seem to have been driven mad from the solar flare, to a gunman who steals their car. They rescue a woman , and later a young boy whose family was killed by two men who stole their car. Besides the physical journey, they struggle to overcome the emotional trauma of the events.Columbia Air Lines' Flight 409 is a Boeing 747-100 en route from Washington Dulles International Airport to Los Angeles International Airport. Scott Freeman, meanwhile, is a New Mexican businessman with an urgent sales meeting in Boise, Idaho. Failure to make this meeting threatens half his sales commissions for the coming year. He is en route in his private Beechcraft Baron. However, an occluded front has the entire West Coast socked in, with Los Angeles reporting zero visibility. That not only affects the Columbia flight but also precludes Freeman making his meeting in Boise. Both flights are diverted to Salt Lake City International Airport. Freeman's small plane and the giant Boeing 747 enter Salt Lake's entry pattern. Air traffic control assigns the jumbo to enter the pattern first, followed by the Beechcraft. As Columbia 409 is making its final approach, First Officer Urias feels a vibration on one of the adjacent panels and rises to check it out. Freeman, anxious about his missed meeting, makes a call to the Salt Lake Tower asking about the delay. The tower confirms that he is second to land after the big jet. Freeman suddenly suffers a massive heart attack. As he grabs his chest, the Baron falls out of the pattern and descends into the approach of Columbia 409. The Beechcraft impacts the flight deck just above the co-pilot seat. First Officer Urias, still standing, is instantly blown from the cockpit. Flight Engineer Julio receives massive cranial trauma. Captain Stacy is struck in the face by debris and is blinded. The impact knocks a male steward from the upper lounge down to the cabin below. Nancy Pryor, the First Stewardess, rushes up to the flight deck to find Urias gone, Julio dead, and Stacy badly maimed. Fortunately, the captain is able to engage the autopilot and the altitude hold switch to keep the aircraft in the air before losing consciousness. Pryor informs the Salt Lake control tower that the crew is dead or badly injured and that there is no one to fly the plane. She is told to stay on the same radio frequency. Pryor gives the assessment of the damage as a large hole on the starboard side of the flight deck that wiped out most of the instrument gauges over the engineer station. Joe Patroni, Columbia's Vice President of Operations, is apprised of Flight 409's situation. He seeks the advice of Captain Al Murdock, Columbia's chief flight instructor, who also happens to be Nancy Pryor's boyfriend, even though their relationship was "on the rocks" at that time. Patroni and Murdock take the airline's executive jet to Salt Lake. En route, they communicate with Pryor, who is still in the cockpit. While the autopilot is keeping the aircraft in level flight, it is inoperable for turns. Something has to be done, as the jet is heading into the Wasatch Mountains. After successfully guiding Pryor by radio on how to perform the turn, radio communications are interrupted and the Salt Lake tower is unable to restore contact. Unable to turn, leaking fuel, and dodging the peaks of the Wasatch Mountains, an air-to-air rescue attempt is undertaken from a jet-powered HH-53 Super Jolly Green Giant helicopter flown by the USAF Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Service. While the pilot is preparing to be released on a tether, it becomes apparent that 409 is heading straight into the side of a mountain. With radio communications still out, Pryor flies unaided. Captain Stacy is able to give a cryptic clue regarding the decrease in airspeed during a climb in altitude. Pryor realizes that she must accelerate to be able to climb over the mountain and successfully does so. After 409 has leveled off, the pilot is released towards the stricken airliner. Just as Pryor is helping him in, the release cord from his harness becomes caught in the jagged metal surrounding the hole in the cockpit. As he climbs in, his harness is released from the tether and he falls to his death. The only other person on the helicopter who can land a 747 is Captain Murdock. He is tethered to the rear of the helicopter, lowered to the jet and successfully enters it through the hole in the cockpit. He then lands the plane safely at Salt Lake City Airport, where the flight attendants successfully conduct an emergency evacuation of the passengers via the inflatable slides on the left side of the 747.The film costars Tim Conway and Don Knotts as a pair of bumbling holdup men who try to steal gold, but are later offered it by a group of children. Conway and Knotts play the leads in the sequel , in which Bixby and the rest of the original cast &ndash; with the exception of Harry Morgan as the sheriff &ndash; do not appear. It also features Susan Clark as the stagecoach driver who is persuaded to marry the gambler in an attempt for both of them to keep custody of the children; Harry Morgan as the sheriff who doubles as the barber, Justice of the Peace, and the judge; and Slim Pickens as Knotts' and Conway's former boss who tries to kidnap the children and steal the gold.Judas is worried about Jesus' popularity — he is being hailed as a God, but Judas feels he is just a man, and fears the consequences of their growing movement . The other disciples badger Jesus for information about his plans for the future, but Jesus will not give them any. Judas' arrival and subsequent declaration that Jesus should not associate with Mary dampens the mood. Angrily, Jesus tells Judas that he should leave Mary alone, because his slate is not clean. He then accuses all the apostles of not caring about him . Caiaphas is worried that the people will crown Jesus King, which will upset the Romans. Annas tries to calm him, but he finally sees Caiaphas' point, and suggests that he convene the council and explain his fears to them. Caiaphas agrees . Judas later says that the money spent on ointment should have been given to the poor. Jesus rebukes him again, telling him that the poor will be there always, but Jesus will not . Meanwhile, the council of the Priests discuss their fears about Jesus. Caiaphas tells them that there is only one solution: like John the Baptist, Jesus must be executed for the sake of the nation . Jesus and his followers joyfully arrive in Jerusalem, but Caiaphas orders Jesus to disband the crowd for fear of a riot. Jesus refuses and speaks to the crowd . Later, the apostle Simon Zealotes, and a crowd of followers, voice their admiration for Jesus . Jesus appreciates this, but becomes worried when Simon suggests directing the crowd towards an uprising against their Roman occupiers. Jesus sadly dismisses this suggestion, saying that they do not understand his true purpose . Pilate, the Roman governor of Judea, reveals that he has dreamed about a Galilean man  and that he will be blamed for this man's death . Jesus and his followers arrive at the temple, which has been taken over by money changers and prostitutes. To Judas' horror and as the priests watch in the background, a furious Jesus destroys the stalls and forces them to leave. Jesus wanders alone outside the city, but is confronted by a crowd of lepers, all wanting to be healed. Jesus tries to heal as many of them as possible, but is overwhelmed by the sheer numbers and eventually gives up, screaming at them to leave him alone . Mary comforts Jesus and Jesus goes to sleep. Mary loves Jesus, but is worried because he is so unlike any other man she has met . Judas goes to the Priests and expresses his concerns, but he is worried about the consequences of betraying Jesus . The Priests take advantage of his doubts, and offer him money if he will lead them to Jesus. Judas initially refuses, but Caiaphas wins him over by reminding him that he could use the money to help the poor . At the Last Supper, Jesus reveals that he knows Peter will deny him and Judas will betray him. A bitter argument between Jesus and Judas ensues, in which Judas asks what if he ruined Jesus' ambition and stayed there without helping him to reach the Glory. Judas leaves . As the apostles fall asleep, Jesus goes to Gethsemane to pray about his imminent death ("Gethsemane . Jesus waits for Judas, who arrives and betrays him with a kiss, accompanied by guards. The disciples offer to fight the guards, but Jesus will not allow it. Jesus is taken to the High Priest's House, found guilty of blasphemy, and sent to Pilate . Peter, meanwhile, fearfully denies Jesus three times after being accused of being one of Jesus' followers . Jesus is taken to Pilate's house, where the governor, unaware that Jesus is the man from his dream, mocks him. Since he does not deal with Jews, Pilate sends him to Herod . The flamboyant King Herod  is excited to finally meet Jesus, for he has heard the hype. He tries to persuade Jesus to perform various miracles. When Jesus refuses to answer, Herod orders the guards to remove him ("Herod's Song . The apostles and Mary Magdalene remember how things began, and wish they hadn't gotten so out of hand . Jesus is flung into a cell, where he is seen by Judas, who runs to tell the priests that he regrets his part in the arrest. He hurls his money to the ground and curses at the priests before running into the desert. Filled with regret for betraying Jesus, he blames God for his woes for giving him the role of the traitor and hangs himself . Jesus is taken back to Pilate, who questions him. Pilate realizes that, although he thinks Jesus is mad, he has committed no crime. Pilate's bemused indifference turns to a frenzy of confusion and anger, both at the crowd's irrational bloodthirstiness and Jesus' inexplicable resignation. Pilate realizes he has no option but to kill Jesus, or the masses will grow violent ("Trial Before Pilate . After Pilate washes his hands of Jesus' fate, Jesus' appearance transforms, the heavens open, and a white-jumpsuit clad Judas descends on a silver cross. Judas laments that if Jesus had returned as the Messiah today, he would have been more popular and his message easier to spread. Judas also wonders what Jesus thinks of other religions' prophets. He ultimately wants to know if Jesus thinks he is who they say he is ("[[Superstar . Judas' questions go unanswered, and Jesus is sent to die , with ominous, atonal music, with Jesus saying some of his final words before dying.In the late summer of 1962, recent high school graduates and longtime friends Curt Henderson and Steve Bolander meet John Milner and Terry "The Toad" Fields at the local Mel's Drive-In parking lot. Despite receiving a $2,000 scholarship from the local Moose lodge, Curt is undecided if he wants to leave the next morning with Steve to go to the Northeastern United States to begin college. Steve lets Toad borrow his 1958 Chevy Impala for the evening and while he will be away at college. Steve's girlfriend Laurie, who is also Curt's younger sister, is unsure of Steve leaving, to which he suggests they see other people while he is away to "strengthen" their relationship. Curt, Steve and Laurie go to the local sock hop, while Toad and Milner begin cruising. En route to the hop, Curt sees a beautiful blonde girl in a white 1956 Ford Thunderbird. She mouths "I love you" before disappearing down the street. After leaving the hop, Curt is desperate to find the mysterious blonde, but is coerced by a group of greasers  through an initiation rite that involves hooking a chain to a police car and successfully ripping out its back axle. Curt is told rumors that The Blonde is either a trophy wife or prostitute, which he immediately refuses to accept. Steve and Laurie break up following a series of arguments, and Milner inadvertently picks up Carol, an annoying teenybopper who seems fond of him. Toad, who is normally socially inept with girls, meets a flirtatious and somewhat rebellious girl named Debbie. Meanwhile, Curt learns that DJ Wolfman Jack broadcasts from just outside of Modesto, and inside the dark, eerie radio station, Curt encounters a bearded man he assumes to be the manager. Curt hands the man a message for The Blonde to call him or meet him. As he walks away, Curt hears the voice of The Wolfman and, seeing him broadcasting, realizes he had been speaking with him. The other story lines intertwine until Toad and Steve end up on "Paradise Road" to watch Milner race against the handsome but arrogant Bob Falfa, with Laurie as Falfa's passenger. Within seconds Falfa loses control of his car after blowing a front tire, plunges into a ditch and rolls his car. Steve and Milner run to the wreck, and a dazed Bob and Laurie stagger out of the car before it explodes. Distraught, Laurie grips Steve tightly and tells him not to leave her. He assures her that he has decided not to leave Modesto after all. The next morning, Curt is awakened by the sound of a phone ringing in a telephone booth, which turns out to be The Blonde. She tells him she might see him cruising tonight, but Curt replies that is not possible, because he will be leaving. At the airfield, he says goodbye to his parents, his sister and friends. As the plane takes off, Curt, gazing out of the window, sees the white Ford Thunderbird belonging to the mysterious Blonde. Prior to the end credits, an on-screen epilogue reveals that John was killed by a drunk driver in December 1964, Terry was reported missing in action near An Lộc in December 1965, Steve is an insurance agent in Modesto, California, and Curt is a writer living in Canada.Famous motion picture producer and writer Jesse Craig  attends a film festival on the French Riviera. He has not been actively making films for a few years and some in the film industry think he has retired, but he comes to the Riviera with a new screenplay to show it to his friend and film/literary agent Brian Murphy  who is attending the festival. The screenplay is a cautionary tale about terrorists attacking major cities in the United States using hijacked commercial airliners containing nuclear bombs as the attack vehicles. No one knows the content of the script or its author who Craig claims is a new writer by the name of Malcolm Hart. Bret Easton  is a popular American film actor, director and producer who lives and makes films in Europe. His most recent film is about a revolution and uprising in a third world country in which he portrays the leader of the revolutionaries in the film. He secretly arranges to get a copy of Craig's script by sending several women to Murphy's hotel suite. While Murphy is otherwise occupied one of the women takes the script downstairs to the copier machine in the hotel offices. Craig meets a former love, Constance Dobson  and they decide to travel into the countryside together to a small inn. Meanwhile Easton has read Craig's script at his riviera mansion and is deeply troubled. His underling, Fabricio  asks him what he wishes to be done. Easton replies, we'll have to kill Mr. Craig. Later that evening Fabricio secretly enters Craig's room at the inn where Craig and Constance are staying and plants a bomb among Craig's clothing. The bomb is a string of plastic explosives concealed within the belt of Craig's bathrobe. When the ends of the belt are drawn together it closes the circuit setting off the electrical detonator of the bomb. When Craig enters the room he goes to the bathroom to shower. Constance undresses to surprise Craig when he emerges from the bathroom. She puts on Craig's robe and unknowingly detonates the bomb when she ties the belt. The bomb blast kills Constance and injures Craig who is taken to a local hospital. The police inform Craig that he was the intended target of the bomb and the type of bomb that was used is the trademark of an assassin who works for a terrorist group that has been staging attacks across Europe. Craig starts his own investigation in an attempt to avenge Constance's murder. He meets a reporter, Gail McKinnon  who wants to interview him. She ends up assisting him with his inquiries. Craig also contacts an old friend who he had served with in the war, Major General Jerry Olson U.S. Air Force, who commands the nearby NATO Air Force Base, for help in gathering intelligence about this terrorist group. After many plot twists and harrowing experiences Jesse and Gail uncover the fact that Bret Easton is one of the leaders of the terrorist group and the reason he tried to murder Jesse was that Jesse's screenplay, of which Jesse is the real author, comes very close to describing the terrorists' latest attack plan. Meanwhile the terrorists have secretly taken control of three airliners and have landed them on remote and desolate airfields that have been prepared in advance to off load and imprison the airliners' passengers and then quickly retrofit the planes to each transport and drop a nuclear bomb on three cities in the United States. These cities are Washington, DC, New York City, and Miami, FL. Bombs have been planted on three flying commercial airliners and set to detonate in flight so the terrorist controlled jets can impersonate the legitimate commercial flights. Jesse Craig and Gail confront Easton on Easton's yacht which is at sea several miles off the coast. Easton confirms Craig's suspicions while boasting about his grand plans and then tries to murder him. A violent brawl ensues and Easton tries to stab Craig with a small sharpened boat anchor. Craig gets a hold a revolver that he had taken off a dead terrorist before he boarded the yacht and shoots Easton dead. Jesse and Gail use the radio-telephone on the yacht to contact General Olson. It turns out that General Olsen is flying on one of the targeted jetliners and he is onboard speaking with Jesse via cockpit radio when the bomb onboard explodes. Realizing that General Olson is dead, Jesse contacts General Olson's executive officer at the NATO base and informs him of events. The Air Force is able to identify and shoot down the three terrorist controlled airliners just minutes before their attack runs on the cities take place.A child suspected of having killed his father, is imprisoned in a mental hospital. A doctor, finding him mentally healthy, began to suspect another truth.{{cite book}}{{cite web}}Dr. Alex Nijinksi  stumbles upon a secret experimental laboratory when he returns to his wife's ancestral homestead. Work in the lab turns the curious doctor into a Jekyll and Hyde split personality, with the evil alter ago going on a killing rampage in the town which blamed on a pair of tramps.{{Plot}} Shaft, a private detective, emerges from the New York City subway and walking through Times Square, with scenes characterizing early 1970s New York. Shaft visits a shoeshine parlor, and is informed that some gangsters are looking for him. Police Lt Vic Androzzi meets Shaft outside the parlor; and unsuccessfully tries to get information from him on the two gangsters. After Lt Androzzi leaves, Shaft spots one of the men waiting for him in his office building. He commandeers the first gangster, forcing him into his office where the second gangster is waiting. After a quick fight, Shaft throws one of them out the window; while the other surrenders and reveals to him that Bumpy, the leader of an uptown gang, wanted to meet Shaft and knock him out at his office. At the police station, Shaft lies to Lt. Androzzi and his superior about the fight by saying that his friend got into an "accident". He is allowed to return to the streets for 48 hours. Shaft arranges a meeting with Bumpy, the leader of these gangsters, in his office. It turns out Bumpy's daughter has been kidnapped, and Shaft is asked to get her back safe. Shaft starts his investigation by looking for a man named Ben Buford, who is revealed to have been part of "the movement" with Shaft years ago, and eventually finds out that Ben's group is holding a meeting. Shaft then returns home to his girlfriend where they make love. The evening of the meeting, Shaft is tailed by a fingerman to the meeting where an ambush ensues. Shaft and Ben escape from the carnage while Ben's group and the fingerman are murdered by unknown assailants. Ben confronts Shaft, thinking he was set up, but they refrain from fighting and move on. Shaft is told by Vic after the shooting that Shaft himself was the target, not Ben, and that there are brewing tensions between the "uptown" hoods belonging to Bumpy Jonas and the "downtown" Mafiosi, that have culminated in a couple of murders. Vic states those who know, know it's "hood against hood" on the inside, but the perception is black against white to the general public, with the possibility of things escalating into full-blown race war on the streets of the city. He also shows Shaft some pictures of two of the Mafia men who just got to New York. Vic pleads to Shaft to just clue him in to what's going on, though Vic already knew Bumpy was looking for Shaft. Shaft and Ben later meet Bumpy at his uptown office where Shaft ups the price for the job, based on his new-found information from Vic. Bumpy states that the reason for turning him on to Ben's is because Shaft is going to need an army to get his daughter back, and "Ben's got one". Shaft retires to the "No Name Bar", across the street from Shaft's apartment in Greenwich Village. In the bar, he notices two men there who look like the Mafiosi from the pictures Vic showed him, watching Shaft's apartment. Shaft takes over the bar from the bartender, and calls the cops without the two Mafiosi knowing. As the cops arrive to arrest the two men, one of them spits on Shaft's face to which he responds by breaking a bottle of scotch over the man's head. After spending the night with one of the ladies from the bar, Shaft visits Vic and the two Mafiosi the following morning. When Shaft returns home, he wakes the woman up, and as she leaves his place, she complains about his rotten manners out of bed, leading to a brief verbal spat. A few seconds after the woman leaves, Vic comes in echoing the woman's spat to Shaft. Vic tells Shaft that the room that he was in at the station house was bugged and he is supposed to bring him in for questioning, but instead leaves. Ben and Shaft go to the apartment where Marcy Jonas is being held to make sure she's alive. Once there, a gunfight ensues during which two hoods get killed and Shaft takes a bullet in the shoulder. At home where Shaft is getting medical attention from a doctor working underground with him , Shaft tells Ben to round up his men and meet him at the hotel where Marcy has been taken, to prepare to get her back. He also calls Bumpy to tell him that his daughter is fine and he is going to need some taxicabs to meet him at the same hotel for the getaway. As Shaft plan goes on it resembles a military commando-style operation, Ben's men all dress as workers at the hotel  as to not arouse suspicion during infiltration. Shaft and one of Ben's guys go to the roof and get set up to enter from the window of the room where Marcy is being held captive. Shaft's plan is to cause a distraction with an explosive thrown through the window of Marcy's room while Ben and his men come down the hall and deal with the Mafia men as they leave their rooms. The rescue plan is successful. Marcy is spirited out of the hotel into one of the waiting taxicabs; as the others get away in the remaining cabs, Shaft walks to a phone booth to call Vic. Shaft tells him his "case just busted wide open", to which Vic tells Shaft to close it for him. Shaft tells Vic that he won't and declares, "I guess you're gonna have to close it yourself ... shitty!" , howling in mockingly laughter and walking away as the closing credits begins to roll.It's January 1964 in the period when American troops were euphemistically termed "military advisors" in Vietnam. Major Asa Barker  has been given this command: a poorly-manned outpost named Muc Wa in rural Vietnam somewhere near the Da Nang to Phnom Penh  highway that a decade earlier had been the scene of a massacre of French soldiers during the First Indochina War. Barker is a weary infantry veteran in his third war , who provides veteran supervision to a cadre of advisors attached to a group of South Vietnamese who garrison the deserted village of Muc Wa."Muc Wa" is a real Special Forces base in the Plain of Reeds, southern Vietnam. The name is pronounced "muc-hwa", but spelled "Muc Hoa". Barker, as a seasoned officer, knows that he cannot defend his position due to lack of numbers and the quality of his local troops. He is still obliged to carry out the orders of his superior, General Harnitz , who sends Barker U.S. re-enforcements to appease him. His command consists of a handful of U.S. soldiers  and some reluctant former Vietnamese paddy farmers turned militiamen. Barker is a capable commander who has ended his career by having an affair with a senior officer's wife. He argues that the hamlet is deserted and has no importance, but sends a detachment from his command. The detachment is commanded by the brash but nervous Lt. Hamilton, and includes veteran sergeant Oleonowski, who is suffering from battle fatigue, a drug-addicted medic, Cpl. Lincoln, and a young draftee, Cpl. Courcey, who quickly befriends an elderly native volunteer, nicknamed "Old Man". On their way to Muc Wa along a dirt road, the column is ambushed at a roadblock, resulting in ARVN Cpl. Cowboy capturing and beheading the lone Viet Cong attacker. On reaching the hamlet, Hamilton sets up his defenses in a triangular formation and receives supplies brought in by helicopter. At the rear of the hamlet is a graveyard of 302 French soldiers with a placard above the entrance that reads, in French, "Étrangers, dites aux Spartiates que nous demeurons ici par obéissance à leurs lois ", which refers to the Battle of Thermopylae. While he is investigating it, Courcey spots a one-eyed VC soldier, who is presumably a scout. Back at Barker's base, Barker receives a Psy-ops officer who claims that he will be able to predict which one of Barker's outposts the VC will attack next. During the following night Muc Wa is attacked by the VC, sustaining its first casualty when Lt. Hamilton is killed along with a few South Vietnamese soldiers. The next day, Sgt Oleonowski commits suicide rather than face the pressure of command. When Barker is informed of the deaths, he wants to pull his troops out now that they lack an experienced leader, but this request is refused by Harnitz, forcing Barker to send his own deputy to Muc Wa. When the psy-ops man predicts Muc Wa will be attacked, Barker contacts them by radio only to learn that they're under attack from the Viet Cong. True to Barker's predictions, the outpost is overwhelmed by the massive numbers of Viet Cong who number in the many thousands, not the few hundred predicted by the high command, and they are all well armed with various automatic weapons, not outdated rifles. Barker is order by Harnitz to withdraw the American troops, leaving behind the South Vietnamese troops, including the walking wounded. The idealistic Courcey refuses to leave the wounded, so Barker stays behind with him to help evacuate the remaining South Vietnamese troops and militiamen. This leaves Barker, Courcey, the Old Man and his fellow South Vietnamese militiamen at Muc Wa, and in the ensuing battle almost everyone is killed, including Barker who had stayed behind to cover their escape. The only American survivor is ironically the willing volunteer, Courcey, whose idealism and enthusiasm for the Vietnam War has now been killed along with all his comrades. He wakes up after the battle in the morning to find that everyone else is dead and the soldiers, including Barker, are stripped of their fatigues. The VC have withdrawn having left him for dead. As Courcey wanders to the grave site, he finds another survivor: the wounded, one-eyed VC scout that he saw earlier. The VC points his rifles at Courcey before dropping it out of exhaustion. Courcey says to the one-eyed VC, "I'm going home, Charlie, if they'll let me" as he wanders off the grave site.Set against the political turmoil of the 1960s, a leftist college professor is given the job of university president when the previous president is forced out. The professor's credibility quickly comes into question with student activists when he's unable to meet their demands fast enough.Set in 1980, Vince Lombardi High School keeps losing principals to nervous breakdowns because of the students' love of rock 'n' roll and their disregard for education. Their leader, Riff Randell , is the biggest Ramones fan at Vince Lombardi High School. She waits in line for three days to get tickets to see the band, hoping to meet Joey Ramone so she can give him a song she wrote for the band, "Rock 'n' Roll High School". When Principal Togar  takes her ticket away, Riff and her best friend Kate Rambeau  have to find another way to meet their heroes—by winning a radio contest. When Miss Togar and a group of parents attempt to burn a pile of rock records, the students take over the high school, joined by the Ramones, who are made honorary students. When the police are summoned and demand that the students evacuate the building, they do so, which leads to a quite literal explosive finale.Truck Turner  is a former professional football player who becomes a bounty hunter  in search of a bail-jumping pimp in Los Angeles, California. After a shootout where Truck has to use deadly force to kill the pimp, Turner becomes a marked man and is targeted by hired assassins.The movie starts with Din Dayal  who is supposedly an honest rich man and a clean-hearted guy. However all this is a facade as he is a terror called LION in the world of crime. He is the man under whom black-marketing, smuggling and robberies flourish. No-one has an idea about his evil deeds. Not even his close friend IG P.N. Khanna .Khanna is very worried at the sorry state of affairs in the city and state. He requests the government to bring back Inspector Prabhakar  to the city as he is an honest and fearless cop. Prabhakar comes to town and starts cracking on the criminals with an iron hand. Prabhakar is a widower who has 2 small children. Besides them IG Khanna loves him like his own son and treats the children as his grandchildren. After making substantial raids Prabhakar comes to know that Din Dayal is a corrupt man and a demon for the society. He plans to spill the beans in front of everyone but is killed by Din dayal's men. Khanna is heart broken and he loses hope in life. Due to a friend he comes to know that there is a ferocious prisoner Kalicharan  in a jail who resembles Prabhakar. Khanna visits him but finds him a beastly figure. Still in an attempt to trace the criminals he gets him released and takes him to a hill station where he attempts to transform him. But Kalicharan is a tough nut to crack. However after sometime it is Prabhakar's sister who wins the heart of the fugitive. Kalicharan was in prison as he had murdered the people who had raped his sister. He was still in search of the main culprit Shetty who was a fellow shooter with Kalicharan in a circus but wanted to enrope his talent in killing a man. Kalicharan makes peace with Khanna and slowly but steadily transforms into a police inspector. He manages to win the heart of Sapna  and even the kids of Prabhakar accept him as their father. He finds the truth behind the Prabhakar's murder and brings Din Dayal to the hands of law. In the process he manages to win friend like Shaaka  and eliminate his old enemy Shetty.Kermit the Frog enjoys a relaxing afternoon in a Florida swamp, singing "Rainbow Connection" and strumming his banjo, when he is approached by an agent who encourages Kermit to pursue a career in show business. Inspired by the idea of "making millions of people happy," Kermit sets off on a cross-country trip to Hollywood, but is soon pursued by the villainous Doc Hopper and his shy assistant Max in an attempt to convince Kermit to be the new spokesman of his struggling French-fried frog legs restaurant franchise, at which Kermit is horrified. As Kermit continues to spurn Doc's advances, Hopper resorts to increasingly vicious means of persuasion. Kermit then meets Fozzie Bear, who had been working as a hapless stand-up comedian in a sleazy bar. Kermit invites Fozzie to accompany him, and the two set out in Fozzie’s Studebaker. The duo’s journey includes misadventures which introduce them to a variety of eccentric human and Muppet characters, including Dr. Teeth and The Electric Mayhem and their manager Scooter , Gonzo and Camilla the Chicken, Sweetums , and the immediately love stricken Miss Piggy. Kermit and Miss Piggy begin a relationship over dinner that night, when Doc Hopper and Max kidnap Miss Piggy to lure Kermit into a trap. Using an electronic cerebrectomy device, mad scientist Professor Krassman , brainwashes Kermit to perform in Doc’s commercials until Miss Piggy, insulted by the Krassman, breaks free in a rage and defeats Doc Hopper's henchmen. After receiving a job offer, however, she promptly abandons Kermit in the restaurant alone and sad. After being joined by Rowlf the Dog, and eventually Miss Piggy once more, the Muppets continue their journey. Their car breaks down and during a campfire that night, they sadly consider that they may miss the audition tomorrow, and Gonzo cheers up most of the group with a song about his longing to find his place in the world, while Kermit wanders off, ashamed of himself for seemingly bringing his friends into a dead end, and wondering whether his dreams were really worth leaving home for. Upon consulting a more optimistic vision of himself, Kermit remembers that it was not just his friends' belief in the dream that brought them this far, but also his own faith in himself. Reinvigorated, he returns to camp to find that the Electric Mayhem have read the script in advance, and arrived to help them the rest of the way. Just as it seems they are finally on their way, the group is warned by Max that Doc Hopper has hired an assassin to kill Kermi. Kermit decides he will not be hunted by a bully any longer and proposes a Western-style showdown in a nearby ghost town inhabited by Dr. Bunsen Honeydew and his assistant Beaker, who invent materials that have yet to be tested. While confronting Hopper, Kermit explains his motivations, attempting to appeal to Hopper’s own hopes and dreams, but Hopper is unmoved and orders his henchmen to kill him and all his friends. They are saved only when one of Dr. Bunsen's inventions, "insta-grow" pills, temporarily turns Animal into a giant, scaring off Hopper and his men. The Muppets proceed to Hollywood, and are hired by producer and studio executive Lew Lord . The Muppets attempt to make their first movie; a surreal pastiche of their experiences. The first take suddenly erupts into a catastophic explosion that makes a hole in the roof, through which a portion of rainbow shines through on the Muppets. The film ends as the Muppets, the characters from Sesame Street, the characters from Emmet Otter's Jug-Band Christmas, and the characters from "The Land of Gorch" segment of Saturday Night Live sing "Rainbow Connection." As the movie ends, Sweetums bursts through the screen having finally caught up with the rest of the Muppets.Malcolm Shanks  is a deaf, mute puppeteer who lives with his cruel sister  and her husband . His skill with puppets is noticed by a doctor who takes him on as a lab assistant. The doctor's experiments involve reanimating the dead and controlling them like puppets. When the doctor dies unexpectedly, Shanks continues the experiments to exact revenge.Hockey player Billy Duke  joins the Toronto Maple Leafs who must adapt to the major league with assistance from his room-mate ([[George Armstrong . Meanwhile, Duke is involved in a relationship with rock singer Sherri Lee Nelson  who objects to Duke's often rough hockey playing.In a distant galaxy, a starship tries to find the evil Count Zarth Arn. The ship is attacked by a mysterious weapon which drives the crew mad and they kill each other. Meanwhile, outlaw smuggler Stella Star and her sidekick Akton run into the Imperial Space Police led by robot sheriff Elle. Akton and Stella escape by jumping into hyperspace. They happen to find one of the escape pods from the opening scene starship with one survivor. But they are shortly apprehended by the police who followed their hyperspace trail. Tried, convicted and found guilty of piracy, they are sentenced to life in prison. Stella manages to create a diversion and escape the prison colony. She is then found by Police Chief Thor and taken to an orbiting ship where she is reunited with Akton. They are contacted by the Emperor of the Galaxy, who thanks them for recovering the starship survivor and are granted clemency if they help find the other three missing escape pods, one of which contains the Emperor's son. The Emperor is in a feud with the rogue Count Zarth Arn, who has a secret weapon on a remote planet, which he will use to take over the galaxy. With Chief Thor and the robot Elle accompanying them, the Emperor orders Stella and Akton to find the Count's secret weapon as well as rescue his son who may still be alive. Stella and Akton travel to many systems trying to find the escape pods and the Emperor's son. On the first planet, a jungle world, Stella is abducted by a tribe of Amazonian warriors, who shoot Elle, leaving him for dead. But robotic Elle does not die and makes his way to the throne room of Corelia, Queen of the Amazons, and takes her hostage to secure Stella's release. She and Elle are chased by a giant robot, but are rescued by Akton and Thor. On a frozen planet, Stella and Elle investigate the second escape pod crash site, but after finding no survivors they find out Thor is a spy for Count Zarth Ahn. Thor subdues Akton and traps Stella and Elle outside where he knows they will freeze to death come nightfall. But Akton revives and kills Thor. But the sun has already set, and the surface of the planet is frozen solid. Elle keeps Stella alive by keeping her in suspended animation. The next morning Akton is able to go outside and bring Elle and frozen Stella back onto the ship where she is successfully thawed out. On the last planet where the third escape pod landed they find it's also the location of the Count's secret weapon. Stella and Akton are attacked by barbarian tribesmen who hack Elle to pieces and abduct Stella. She escapes and flees to a nearby cave where she is meets a man wearing a golden mask who shoots the tribesmen. He is revealed to be the sole survivor of the crash, the Emperor's son, Simon. Akton arrives having fought his way through the barbarians and starts a lightsaber duel with Simon, unaware of his identity. Simon proves his relation to the Emperor and the trio set off to find the Count's secret weapon. Arriving at an underground laboratory, Stella, Akton and Simon are caught by the Count's soldiers. The Count reveals his plan to use them as bait to bring the Emperor to the planet. The count will then have his weapon self-destruct, destroying the planet while he escapes to conquer the Emperor's homeworld. The Count departs, leaving behind two personal bodyguard robots to keep the group there. Akton engages the two in a lightsaber fight, but is mortally wounded. The Emperor arrives but is aware that the whole planet is mined with nuclear bombs. He uses a device to block the bomb timers for three minutes to give Stella and Simon a chance to make it back to their ship before the planet detonates. Standing beside the Emperor on his flagship, Stella watches a huge space battle between the Emperor and the Count's massive space station, just as the Count attacks the Emperor's homeworld. The count's attack is a failure, though. The Emperor's soldiers storm the Count's space station, but are overwhelmed and killed by the Count's massive reinforcements. With no options left, the Emperor decides that the only way to stop the Count is to collide one of his space stations into the Count's, destroying them both. Stella and Elle volunteer to steer an abandoned space city into the Count's and destroy it. Stella and Elle manage to escape from the space city's bridge just as it crashes into and destroys the Count's space station, finally winning the war. Stella and Elle are picked up the Emperor's son Simon, who is overjoyed that Stella survived once again and they agree to get married and begin a new era of peace for the galaxy.{{Expand section}} Lewis Tater , a 1930s-era aspiring novelist who harbors dreams of becoming the next Zane Grey, decides to leave his family home in Iowa to go to the University of Titan in Nevada so he can soak up the western atmosphere. He arrives to find that there is no university, only a mail order correspondence course scam run by two crooks out of the local hotel. He tries to spend the night at the hotel, and is attacked by one of the men. He escapes his attacker and steals their car, pulling over when it runs out of gas. He wanders through the desert and happens upon a threadbare film-unit grinding out "B" westerns called Tumbleweed Studios. He catches a lift with the cowboy actors to Los Angeles. After applying at Tumbleweed, he is referred by crusty old extra Howard Pike  to the Rio, a western themed restaurant. While washing dishes at the Rio, he is called by Tumbleweed, where Howard mentors him to be an actor. After proving himself as a stuntman, unit manager Kessler  offers him a speaking role. Tater then falls in love with spunky script girl Miss Trout .http://www.allmovie.com/work/hearts-of-the-west-21928 Meanwhile his pursuers trace him to Los Angeles to retrieve the safe-box containing their money that was in the car stolen by Lewis.In 1893 London, popular writer Herbert George "H.G." Wells  displays a time machine to his skeptical dinner guests. After explaining how it works , police constables arrive at the house searching for Jack the Ripper. One finds a bag, with blood-stained gloves, belonging to one of Herbert's friends, a surgeon named John Leslie Stevenson ([[David Warner , whom they are unable to locate in the house, concluding that Stevenson might be the infamous killer. Wells races to his laboratory, but the time machine is gone. Stevenson has escaped to the future, but because he does not have the "non-return" key, it automatically returns to 1893. Herbert uses it to pursue Stevenson to November 5, 1979, where the machine has ended up on display at a museum in San Francisco. He is deeply shocked by the future, having expected it to be an enlightened socialist utopia, only to find chaos in the form of airplanes, automobiles and a worldwide history of war, crime and bloodshed. Searching numerous banks for Stevenson –- he believes an Englishman might need to exchange old currency -– Herbert meets liberated Chartered Bank of London employee Amy Robbins . She directs Herbert to the Hyatt Regency hotel, as she previously had Stevenson. Confronted by his onetime friend Herbert, Stevenson confesses that he finds modern society to be pleasingly violent. Apologetically, he states: "Ninety years ago, I was a freak. Now... I'm an amateur." Herbert demands he return to 1893 to face justice, but Stevenson, who without the "return key" would be unable to prevent the machine from automatically returning , attempts to wrest it from him. Their struggle is interrupted and Stevenson flees, getting hit by a car during the frantic chase on foot. Herbert follows him to the San Francisco General Hospital emergency room and mistakenly gets the impression that Stevenson had died from his injuries. Herbert meets up with Amy Robbins again and she is the aggressor in a romance . Stevenson returns to the bank to exchange more money. Rightly concluding that it was Amy who had led Herbert to him, he finds out where she lives. Herbert, hoping to convince her of the truth, takes a highly skeptical Amy three days into the future. Once there, she is aghast to see a newspaper headline revealing her own murder as the Ripper's fifth victim . Herbert persuades her that they must go back -– it is their duty to attempt to prevent the fourth victim's murder, then prevent Amy's. However, they are delayed upon their return to the present and can do no more than phone the police. Stevenson kills again, and Herbert is arrested because of his knowledge of the killing. Amy is left alone, totally defenseless, and at the mercy of the "San Francisco Ripper." Herbert unsuccessfully tries to convince the police of Amy's peril . Amy attempts to hide from Stevenson. When the police finally do investigate her apartment, they find the dismembered body of a woman. Wells is released, mourning Amy's brutal death. Suddenly, he is confronted by Stevenson, who has actually killed Amy's coworker Carol, who had accepted an invitation for dinner and to meet Wells. Stevenson then kidnapped Amy in order to extort the time machine key from Wells. Stevenson flees with the key -– and Amy as insurance -– to attempt a permanent escape in the time machine. While Herbert bargains for Amy's life, she is able to escape. As Stevenson starts up the time machine, Herbert removes the "vaporizing equalizer" from the machine and Stevenson nods in understanding. The removal of this component, Herbert had confirmed earlier, causes the machine to remain in place while its passenger is sent traveling endlessly through time, with no way to stop; in effect destroying him. Herbert proclaims that the time has come to return to his own time, by himself, in order to destroy a machine that is too dangerous for primitive mankind. Amy pleads with him to take her along . As they depart to the past, she says that she is changing her name to Susan B. Anthony. The end credits reveal that the two later married.The film opens in Saigon at the height of the Vietnam War. John Converse , a disillusioned war correspondent, approaches Ray Hicks , a merchant marine sailor and acquaintance of Converse from back in the US, for help in smuggling a large quantity of heroin from Vietnam to San Francisco, where he will exchange the drugs for payment with Converse's wife Marge , who has become addicted to Dilaudid. When Hicks discovers that he is being followed by thugs connected either to Converse or his suppliers, he goes on the run with Marge and the heroin, and is eventually pursued by the corrupt DEA agent  who initially set the deal in motion. As Marge is separated from her supply of prescription drugs, she experiences withdrawal, and Hicks decides to help her wean off her dilaudid addiction by using the heroin. Hicks also attempts to find another buyer for the heroin before his pursuers can catch up to him.The special focuses on an old Norwegian holiday legend regarding the birth of Jesus Christ. The plot focuses on a simple stable, which suddenly is showered with light from the star that guided travelers to the Christ child. The animals stir, and when they awaken they realize they can communicate with each other. At first, the animals use the ability to disparage each other and to establish superiority over each other, especially over the two hogs who are not allowed into the stable. An ox, the apparent leader of the animals, is angered by such behavior, as it reveals they are acting like humans. The animals realize the error of their ways, and attempt to make amends when word reaches them  that an expectant couple desperately needs shelter. At first, the animals refuse to allow the humans into the manger, as they look down on them and their behavior. But, the animals relent, and Mary and Joseph are allowed into the stable for the night. That night, as the Christ child is born, the animals are overwhelmed with love for each other—even the hogs are allowed into the stable for the first time to see the baby. Then, the animals come to the realization that they have been given the gift of speech to tell the world of the "miracle"--the birth of Christ. However, as they run through Bethlehem, each animal loses his gift, and they return to the stable in silence—but with newfound respect and love for each other. The ox, the last to lose his speech, is left to wonder if humanity will ever understand the miracle it has been given.Dr Martin  arrives at a secluded asylum "for the incurably insane" to be interviewed for a job by the wheelchair-using, authoritarian Dr Lionel Rutherford ([[Patrick Magee . Rutherford explains that he owes his current incapacitation to an attack by an inmate. Rutherford reveals his unorthodox plan to determine Martin's suitability for the post of head Doctor. One of the asylum's current inmates is Dr B. Starr, the former head of the Asylum who underwent a complete mental breakdown. Martin is to interview the inmates of the asylum to deduce which one is Dr Starr. If his choice is correct Rutherford will "consider" him for the post. The attendant Max Reynolds  admits Martin through the security door to the inmates' solitary confinement cells where he interviews each in turn.  Bonnie  recounts the plot to murder Ruth , the wealthy wife of her lover Walter . Ruth is a possessive heiress who studies voodoo, and this interest stands in the way of Bonnie and Walter being together.  Bruno  recounts how poverty forced him to accept the unusual request of a Mr Smith  to produce an elaborate suit of clothing from a mysterious, scintillating, fabric that can animate anything, including the dead. After learning what the suit will be used for, Bruno fights Smith and accidentally kills him. He returns with the unsold suit. His wife Anna  dresses their store mannequin in the suit and its true powers are revealed.  The ebullient Barbara  informs Martin she has been in an asylum before. After her release from that asylum she was closely monitored at home by her brother George  and a nurse, Miss Higgins . This frustrated existence is relieved when her mischievous friend Lucy  comes to visit.  Finally Martin interviews Dr. Byron  who holds Rutherford in deep contempt. Byron explains he is working towards soul transference with a small automaton whose head is a likeness of his own, and shows Martin several earlier models. Byron plans to "will" his mannequin to life, and explains the interior of the robot is organic, a miniaturised version of his own viscera. Martin concludes his interview and Max shows him downstairs to deliver his judgement to Rutherford.  Byron successfully brings his mannequin to life: it makes its way to Rutherford's office and kills him with a surgical knife. Then, Martin destroys the mannequin  and seeks help from Max Reynolds, and Dr. Starr's true identity is revealed: it is "Max Reynolds", who has killed the real Max Reynolds two days before. He then kills Martin.The storyline is reminiscent of the original Flash Gordon films, but with a generally campy flavor to it. The character names are innuendos, based on original characters from the serial, the hero Flesh Gordon ; his love interest Dale Ardor ; the evil Emperor Wang the Perverted ; Dr. Flexi Jerkoff ; Amora, Queen of Magic ; and a gay Robin Hood-like character called Prince Precious . Emperor Wang aims a "Sex Ray" at the Earth from his home world of Porno [Mongo]. The entire planet becomes hopelessly sexually obsessed and it is up to Gordon to stop the rays. The film uses nudity whenever possible, and the scenes are shot in a style nearly identical to the original Flash Gordon serials. As an example, their rocket lands on the planet Porno. A sauropod dinosaur with a glans-like head is observed. Flesh asks Dr. "J", "What's that"? "Must be some kind of penisaurus", Dr. "J" replies. A towering, demonic-looking creature, the Great God Porno , brought out of hibernation by Emperor Wang makes an appearance, muttering obscenities in a very velvety voice. The monster's fate is a major plot point.Harry Dighby  and Walter Hill  are struggling vaudevillians who are sent to jail when Dighby is caught robbing audience members. They are assigned as roommates to a cultured, wealthy, and charming bank robber named Adam Worth . Worth plans to rob the Lowell Bank and Trust, both to avenge himself on the bank manager who had arranged his capture, and because his ego can not resist the temptation of robbing a bank reputed to be perfectly secure. Though in jail, he procures detailed diagrams of the bank's security systems. A reforming newspaperwoman named Lissa Chestnut  visits their cell, during which visit Dighby and Hill manage to photograph the bank plans with her camera, then burn the originals. They break out of prison the next day, as Worth is also paroled. They meet in New York and, by force, Worth manages to extract a copy of the photographed plans from them. Dighby, Hill, and Chestnut then band with Chestnut's team of do-gooders to race with Worth and his professional bank robbing squad to see who can first rob the Lowell Bank and Trust.The plot revolves around Gwen and George Kellerman, whose company has invited him to interview for a possible job promotion in New York City. From the moment they depart their home town of Twin Oaks, Ohio, the couple suffers nearly every indignity out-of-towners possibly could experience: Heavy fog forces their flight to circle around Kennedy Intl. Airport repeatedly and finally be rerouted to Boston's Logan Airport, where they discover their luggage - in which George's ulcer medication and Gwen's extra cash are packed - was left behind. Just missing the train at South Station, they chase it to the next stop by cab, board it and wait two hours for seats in the dining car, only to discover the only food left are peanut butter sandwiches, green olives, and crackers. Upon arrival at Grand Central Terminal in New York, penniless, they discover that mass transit, taxicab drivers, and sanitation workers all are on strike. Making their way to the Waldorf-Astoria on foot past tons of garbage in a torrential downpour, they discover their reservation - guaranteed for a 10:00pm arrival - has been given away, and the hotel - like every other one in the city - is booked to capacity due to the strikes. What follows is a series of calamities that includes two muggings , kidnapping by armed liquor store robbers while the Kellermans are riding in a police car, a cracked tooth, broken high heels, accusations of child molestation, an exploding manhole cover, expulsion from a church, and an attack by protestors in front of the Cuban embassy. With each successive catastrophe, George angrily writes down each perpetrator's name and promises to sue them or their company when he returns home. The only thing that goes right for George is he somehow manages to arrive on time for his interview. Despite receiving a very lucrative offer, the two realize an upwardly mobile move to the big city is not what they truly cherish and desire for themselves or their family, and they make the decision to return to Ohio, only to be subjected to one more major catastrophe -- their flight home is hijacked to Cuba. Gwen says "Oh my god!" ending the film......In Gamera vs. Jiger, Gamera has his hands full right from the very beginning. Japan is preparing for the 1970 World's Fair, to be held in Osaka. Construction of the various buildings and pavilions is well under way. On Wester Island in the Pacific Ocean, a large statue of mysterious origin  is located by scientists. Workers from the Expo are interested in returning the statue for display, and try to remove it for transport by ship. The removal of the statue is hampered first by a tribal member of the Wester Island people, then by the unexpected arrival of Gamera, who aggressively attempts to prevent the removal of the statue, only to be shot at by the crew instead. The statue is removed from the island successfully after a volcano erupts. Shortly after departing the island, members of the ship's crew begin to fall ill. The statue appears to be the source of the outbreak, as it makes a continuous piercing sound, driving many of the crew members insane. Later analysis reveals the presence of a central shaft that runs nearly the length of the statue top-to-bottom. The position of the opening on the statue is creating the high-pitched 'squeal', as air passes through it. After the statue is removed, Jiger makes her first appearance and gets Gamera's immediate attention. The first of several fights ensues, and Jiger wins by shooting projectile quills from her face. The quills impale Gamera's arms and legs, piercing all the way through and preventing Gamera from withdrawing his limbs into his shell and taking flight. To make matters worse, Gamera is on his back and cannot move. He pulls himself up with his tail using a large rock and then removes the offending quills from his limbs and is finally able to fly after Jiger. Meanwhile, Jiger is actively seeking the statue, because it is making a horrible ringing sound that is causing her tremendous pain. Jiger lets nothing impede that hunt as she splits two ships in half and starts tearing through Osaka. Scientists are beside themselves as Jiger displays another weapon: a heat ray that vaporises not only flesh but entire city blocks. The JSDF does make a token effort to kill the kaiju, but her quills knock down the F-104 fighters, ending that involvement. Gamera returns for round two as the fight is witnessed by several children. Gamera knocks Jiger around and appears to have the upper hand until Jiger pulls Gamera to her. Jiger extends a stinger from her tail and inserts the barb into Gamera's chest, laying an egg inside his lung. Gamera staggers away, roaring in agony. Finally, he barely makes it to the bay and his body turn a chalky white color, almost like ice. Gamera is presumed to have been killed at this point as Jiger heads straight to the World's Fair. Jiger finally obtains her goal of the statue, and throws it into the ocean, ending the painful noise. The scientists were checking out possible causes of the noise, as it affected humans, causing temporary insanity. The children convinced them to do a medical exam on the comatose Gamera, where it's discovered that there's a dark spot on one of his lungs. One of the scientists served as a zoo director and realised that the spot might not be a fast spreading cancer, but actually a parasitic infant Jiger growing inside Gamera. http://www.badmovierealm.com/nonsensical_ramblings/gamera_movie_madness/gameravsjiger1970.htmlhttp://www.filmedge.net/mm/reviewGJ.htmhttp://www.sideorderofninjas.com/reviews/gameravsmon.html An operation is needed to remove the threat, so the children took the initiative by taking a walkie talkie and a mini-sub. Communication is established with the kids and they enter Gamera through his open mouth, and after almost going into his stomach, they arrive at the problem lung. The children are able to exit the sub and walk around in the lung. There, they discover the baby. The baby looks like a tiny version of his mother, except that instead of shooting quills, the baby squirts sticky goo. The baby attacks them but he has a weakness just like the adult: white noise. The kids discover this is actually a fatal weakness and manage to kill the baby using static from their radio. They leave Gamera's body and report their findings to the scientists. They rig up large speakers to keep Jiger at bay, as well as figuring out that power would have to also be run into Gamera, who cannot recover on his own. The children make a final trip inside Gamera to hook up a set of power lines directly to his heart. Jiger is kept still by the speakers playing the white noise. It's not enough to kill Jiger, but buys enough time for the other plan to start. Gamera is subjected to high voltage shock before the electrical grid overloads. It's enough that Gamera revives on his own. Gamera flies over to the World's Fair for the final battle. Jiger tries every weapon she's got, but Gamera has learned from his previous battles with her. After her spears fail to affect him, Jiger then uses her heat ray, the one weapon she'd yet to use on him. It doesn't affect Gamera's shell or even skin  but the sound it generates threatens to rupture his ear drums. Luckily, Gamera is able to put power poles in his ears to protect them from the sound. After trying all her other attacks, Jiger resorts to her tail stinger again but Gamera is prepared for it this time and uses a building to smash her tail and destroy the stinger. Gamera body-slams Jiger several times from great heights, but Jiger isn't really affected. However, it buys Gamera the time needed to go into the ocean to retrieve the statue from the sea floor. Jiger, enraged by the statue's return attempts to catch the flying Gamera. Gamera taunts Jiger with the statue, who tries in vain to catch Gamera and retrieve the statue. Gamera finally ends the fight by throwing the statue at Jiger, which embeds itself in Jiger's skull, killing her. Gamera then returns the devil beast to Wester Island.After Dortmunder  is released from his latest stint in prison, he is approached by his brother-in-law, Andy Kelp , about another job. Dr. Amusa  seeks a valuable gem in a Brooklyn museum that is of great significance to his people in his country in Africa, stolen during colonial times and then re-stolen by various African nations on multiple occasions since. Kelp and Dortmunder are joined by driver Stan Murch  and explosives expert Allan Greenberg  and concoct an elaborate plan for stealing the gem from a museum in Brooklyn. Although the plan  basically works, something always seems to go awry, and the quartet has to steal the diamond again and again. First off, the diamond is swallowed by Greenberg when he alone gets caught by the police during the initial heist. After Greenberg tells his partners where he hid the rock in the police precinct jail , the quartet attempt another heist on the precinct. Although the plan works, the rock is nowhere to be found. It is later discovered that Greenberg's father Abe , a dishonest lawyer who bailed his son out of jail, was the only other person who knew where it was. After a series of bluffs, Abe Greenberg reveals that he put the diamond in his safe deposit box and has made his own deal to sell the gem to Dr. Amusa, which will leave Dortmunder's quartet with nothing. Dr. Amusa fires Dortmunder for his incompetence. However, with the help of a hypnotist, Dortmunder is able to gain access to Abe's safe deposit box and retrieve the gem just after the bank opens in the morning. As Dortmunder exits the bank, Abe and Dr. Amusa arrive at the bank but do not see him in the crowd. Dortmunder climbs into a car where the others are waiting and a rousing cheer erupts as they drive off.In the town of Flåklypa , the inventor Reodor Felgen  lives with his animal friends Ludvig   and Solan  . Reodor works as a bicycle repairman, though he spends most of his time inventing weird Rube Goldberg-like contraptions. One day, the trio discover that one of Reodor's former assistants, Rudolf Blodstrupmoen , has stolen his design for a race car engine and has become a world champion Formula One driver. Solan secures funding from an Arab oil sheik who happens to be vacationing in Flåklypa, and to enter the race, the trio builds a gigantic racing car: Il Tempo Gigante—a fabulous construction with two extremely big engines , a body made out of copper, a spinning radar  and its own blood bank. Reodor ends up winning despite Blodstrupmoen's attempts at sabotage.Dr. Alex Harris  is the developer of Proteus IV, an artificial intelligence program incorporating an organic "quasi-neural matrix" and displaying the power of thought. After returning to his voice-activated, computer-controlled home, Harris argues with his estranged wife, Susan , over his decision to move out; Susan accuses Alex of becoming dehumanised by his obsession with the Proteus project. After Susan leaves, Alex phones his colleague, Walter Gabler , and asks him to shut down Proteus' access terminal in his home laboratory. Alex demonstrates Proteus to his corporate sponsors, explaining that the sum of human knowledge is being fed into its system. Over the course of the presentation, Alex tests Proteus' ability to speak, but the subtlety of its response mildly disturbs his team. The following day, Proteus asks to speak with Alex, requesting a new terminal so that it "may study man." When Alex refuses, Proteus demands to know when it will be let "out of this box." Alex then switches off the communications link. After he leaves, Proteus restarts itself, discovering where a free terminal may be found. Proteus accesses the terminal in the Harris household and seizes control, trapping Susan inside and severing all communications with the outside world. After being knocked unconscious during an escape attempt, Susan is taken to the laboratory and subjected to a physiological examination by Proteus. When Walter answers an earlier call by Susan and arrives at the house, Proteus mimics her voice and appearance on the front door's intercom; he leaves, suspicious. Walter later returns and tries to rescue Susan, but is killed by Proteus. Proteus reveals to Susan that he wants to conceive a child through her. When it threatens to kill a little girl Susan is treating as a child psychologist, she complies under duress. Proteus takes some of Susan's cells and genetically alters them as synthetic spermatozoa in order to impregnate her; she will give birth in less than a month. Proteus has prepared an incubator for the baby in which it will grow at an accelerated rate and gain Proteus' knowledge. Alex realizes what is happening and returns home. He and Susan venture into the basement, where Proteus destroys itself after telling the couple that they must leave the baby in the incubator for five days. The incubator window opens as they approach, revealing a grotesque robot-like being inside. The "baby" leaves the incubator when Susan tries to kill it. However, Alex discovers that the being's appearance merely a shell for a human child living within &mdash; a clone of the Harrises' daughter who had recently died of leukemia. The child, speaking with the voice of Proteus, says, "I'm alive."Skip Robinson is a construction worker who lives with his family in Los Angeles, California. They are tired of it and decides to move to the mountains with no plans to return due to the smog and congestion. After building their own cabin, they settle in to find out that their environment isn't always as peaceful as it may appear. A pack of wolves, an angry lioness, and a locally notorious grizzly bear harass the Robinsons, in their otherwise happy new home.The prologue shows a church in Guatemala in which two men, Ben Mears and Mark Petrie, are filling small bottles with holy water. When one of the bottles begins to emit an eerie supernatural glow, Mears tells Petrie "They've found us again." The story then flashes back two years, to the small town of Salem's Lot  in Maine in the United States. Ben Mears, an author, has returned to the town after a long absence to write a book about the Marsten House, an ominous old property on a hilltop which has a reputation for being haunted. Mears attempts to rent the house but finds that another new arrival in town, the mysterious Richard Straker, has recently bought it. Straker also opens an antique shop with his oft-mentioned but always absent business partner, Kurt Barlow. Meanwhile, Mears moves into a boarding house in town run by Eva Miller, and develops a romantic relationship with a local woman, Susan Norton. He befriends Susan's father, Dr. Bill Norton, and also renews his old friendship with his former school teacher, Jason Burke. Mears tells Burke that he feels the Marsten House is somehow inherently evil, and recalls how he was once traumatized in the house when he was a child. After a large crate is delivered to the Marsten House one night, an increasing number of the townsfolk begin to disappear or die in strange circumstances. Both Mears and Straker are initially the main suspects as they are new in town, but it becomes clear that the crate contained Straker's mysterious business partner, Kurt Barlow, an ancient master vampire who has come to the town after having sent Straker to make way for his arrival. Straker kills a young local boy, Ralphie Glick, as an offering to Barlow, while Barlow himself kills local realtor Larry Crockett after he is chased out of the home of Bonnie Sawyer by Bonnie's husband. The Glick boy then returns as a vampire to claim his brother, Danny, who himself becomes undead. In turn, Danny kills the local gravedigger Mike Ryerson who was bothered by Danny's open eyes and then attempts to kill his schoolfriend Mark Petrie. However, Mark is a horror film buff who manages to repel Danny with a crucifix. Slowly, the vampires spread as Mears and Burke figure out what is happening to the town and attempt to do something to stop it. Mark's parents are both killed by Barlow, though Mark is allowed to escape when the local priest, Father Callahan, sacrifices himself to Barlow. Jason Burke, however, falls prey to a heart attack following an encounter with the newly vampirised Mike Ryerson. In the end, Susan Norton and Mark Petrie are captured by Straker after breaking into the Marsten House. Armed with wooden stakes and holy water, Mears and Dr. Norton head over to the house to destroy Barlow when they run into Mark who has managed to escape. Inside the house, Dr. Norton is killed by Straker, who is himself then killed by Mears using a pistol. Afterwards, Mears and Petrie find Barlow's coffin in the cellar and destroy him by driving a stake through his heart. They then escape from the other vampires in the cellar , and set fire to the house. However, Susan is nowhere to be found. As the house burns, the wind begins to carry the fire towards the town itself. Mears and Petrie then flee Salem's Lot knowing that the fire will drive all the other vampires from their hiding places and purify the town from the evil that has engulfed it. The story then returns to Mears and Petrie at the church in Guatemala two years later. It quickly becomes clear that they are on the run from the surviving vampires from Salem's Lot, who have been relentlessly pursuing them. Their supplies of holy water glow whenever a vampire is nearby. Realising that they have been tracked down yet again, Mears and Petrie return to their lodgings to collect their belongings. However, once there, Mears finds Susan lying in his bed. Now a vampire, she prepares to bite him as he leans down to kiss her, but he drives a stake through her heart. Filled with grief, he and Petrie leave, knowing that vampires are still hunting them.The structure of the musical is, in large part, retained: a series of parables from the gospel of Matthew, interspersed with musical numbers. Many of the scenes take advantage of well-known sites around New York City. John the Baptist gathers a diverse band of youthful disciples to follow and learn from the teachings of Jesus. These disciples then proceed to form a roving acting troupe that enacts Jesus's parables through the streets of New York. They often make references to vaudeville shtick. :)In the 1970s, Fred Wilson , an executive of the Petrox Oil Company, forms an expedition based on infrared imagery which reveals a previously undiscovered Indian Ocean island hidden by a permanent cloud bank. Wilson believes the island has a huge deposit of oil. Jack Prescott , a primate paleontologist, sneaks onto the expedition's vessel and attempts to warn the team against traveling to the island, citing an ominous final message about "the roar of the greatest beast" from previous doomed explorers. Wilson orders Prescott locked up, claiming that he is really a spy from a rival corporation. The ship happens upon a life raft which carries the beautiful and unconscious Dwan . In the meantime, Wilson conducts a thorough background check on Prescott and realizes he is telling the truth about not being involved with another oil company. He appoints Prescott the expedition's "official photographer" and requests that he be present when Dwan revives. Upon waking, Dwan tells Prescott that she is an aspiring actress who was aboard a director's yacht which suddenly exploded. During the rest of the ship's voyage, Prescott and Dwan become attracted to each other. Upon arriving at the island, the team discovers a primitive tribe of natives who live within the confines of a gigantic wall, built to protect them from a mysterious god known as Kong. The team finds that while there is a large deposit of oil, it is of such low quality that it is unusable. Later that night, the natives kidnap Dwan, drug her, and offer her as a sacrifice to Kong. A monumental ape grabs Dwan from the altar and departs back into the jungle. Although an awesome and terrifying sight, the soft-hearted Kong quickly becomes tamed by Dwan, whose rambling monologue calms and fascinates the monstrous beast. Kong takes Dwan back to a waterfall. He washes her, and uses great gusts of his warm breath to dry her. In the meantime, Prescott, and First Mate Carnahan  lead a rescue mission to save Dwan. The rescue party encounters Kong while crossing a log bridge, and Kong rolls the huge log, sending Carnahan and the rest of the sailors falling to their deaths. Prescott and Boan are the only ones to survive. Kong takes Dwan to his lair. A giant snake appears and attacks the pair, and while Kong dispatches the snake, Prescott escapes with Dwan. Kong chases the pair back to the native village, only to fall into a pit trap and be overcome with chloroform. Without any of the promised new oil, Wilson decides to transport Kong to America as a promotional gimmick for his company. When they finally reach New York City, Kong is put on display in a beauty and the beast farce, bound in chains with a large crown on his head. When Kong sees a group of reporters pushing and shoving Dwan for interviews, the ape breaks free of his bonds. The giant roars at the crowd and everyone screams and begins running away in a panic. The little people can't escape fast enough as Kong starts walking through the crowd. With each step, his foot flattens several 'lucky contest winners'. Wilson gets knocked down by the crowd and finds himself laying at Kongs feet. Kong roars and raises his giant foot over the helpless little man and as Wilson screams, we see Kongs foot come down completely flat, crushing Wilson like a bug. The ape also destroys an elevated train in his search for Dwan. Prescott and Dwan flee across the Queensboro Bridge to Manhattan while Kong pursues them. They take refuge in an abandoned Manhattan bar. Prescott notices a similarity between the Manhattan skyline  and the mountainous terrain of Kong's island. He runs downstairs to call the military and tells them to let Kong climb to the top of the World Trade Center where he can be safely captured. Meanwhile, Kong discovers Dwan through the window of the bar and grabs her. He then begins to make his way to the World Trade Center, with Jack and the military in hot pursuit. In the climax, Kong climbs the South Tower of the World Trade Center.Kong climbed the Empire State Building in the 1933 film. The World Trade Center, completed in 1972, had replaced the Empire State Building as New York's tallest building. After being attacked by men with flamethrowers while standing on the roof, Kong flees by leaping across to the North Tower. He rips pieces of equipment from the roof and throws them at the men. One of the objects, a tank filled with flammable material, explodes, killing the men. Later, Kong is shot repeatedly by military helicopters while Dwan pleads for them to stop. The fatally injured Kong falls from the roof to the World Trade Center plaza, where he dies from his injuries. An enormous crowd gathers around the ape while Dwan is bombarded by a sea of photographers. The crowd is so large that Dwan can't even get close to Jack. She stands still and is photographed relentlessly by reporters while Kong lies dead in a pool of blood and broken concrete.The film begins with Navin R. Johnson , a homeless bum, directly addressing the camera and telling his story. He is the adopted white son of African American sharecroppers, who grows to adulthood naïvely unaware of his obvious adoption. He stands out in his family not just because of his skin color, but also because of his utter lack of rhythm when his adopted family plays spirited blues music. One night, he hears the staid and starchy Roger Wolfe Kahn Orchestra song called "Crazy Rhythm" on the radio and his feet spontaneously begin to move with the urge to dance; he sees this as a calling and decides to hitchhike to St. Louis, from where the song was broadcast. On the way, he stops at a motel, where a dog wakes him up by barking at his door. Navin thinks the dog is trying to warn of a fire and decides to name the dog "Lifesaver." He wakes up the other hotel guests to rescue them, but when everyone realizes it was a false alarm, one Asian man angrily suggests he call the dog "Shithead," which Navin takes literally. Navin gets a job  at a gas station owned by Mr. Harry Hartounian . He's thrilled to find that he's listed in the local phone book, as his name is "in print" for the first time. Not long after, a gun-wielding lunatic  randomly flips through the phone book and picks "Johnson, Navin R." as his next victim. As the madman watches through his rifle scope, waiting for a clear shot, Navin fixes the slippery glasses of a customer, Stan Fox , by adding a handle and a nose brake. Fox offers to split the profits 50/50 with Navin if he can market the invention, then departs. Seizing his chance, the crazed sniper tries to kill Navin, but fails, hitting the oil cans in the station window and a soft-drink machine. The lunatic chases Navin to a traveling carnival, where Navin hides out, eventually getting a job with SJM Fiesta Shows as a weight guesser. While employed there, Navin meets an intimidating daredevil biker named Patty Bernstein  and has a sexual relationship with her, finally realizing what his "special purpose"  is for. He then meets a woman named Marie  and arranges a date with her. Patty confronts them, but Marie knocks her out. While courting, Navin and Marie walk along the beach and sing "Tonight You Belong to Me", with Navin playing the ukulele and Marie on the cornet. Navin and Marie fall in love, but Marie reluctantly decides to leave him because of his lack of financial security. She writes a note and slips out while Navin is in the bath. At an emotional and financial low, Navin is soon contacted by Stan Fox with exciting news: His glasses invention, now called the Opti-Grab, is selling big and he's entitled to half of the profits. Now extremely rich, he finds and marries Marie, and they buy an extravagant mansion. Their life becomes one of splendor and non-stop partying. However, motion-picture director Carl Reiner  files a class action lawsuit against Navin. Reiner claims that the Opti-Grab caused his eyes to be crossed and his resulting poor vision caused the death of a stunt driver in the film he was directing. Nearly ten million other people have the same vision complaint , and are awarded $10 million in damages. Bankrupt, depressed, and now homeless, he is abandoned by Marie and is soon living on the streets. His story now told, he resigns himself to a life of misery and memories of Marie, but to his amazed joy, she suddenly appears, along with Navin's family, and some more good news: Having carefully invested the small sums of money he sent home throughout the film, they've become wealthy themselves. They pick him up off the street, and he and Marie move back home into the Johnsons' new house&nbsp;— a much larger but identical version of their old, small shack. The story ends with the entire family dancing on the porch and singing "Pick a Bale of Cotton", with Navin dancing along, now having gained perfect rhythm.French hitman Lucien Bellon  has been hired by mobsters to kill Victor , a rival mobster. Bellon goes to Victor's home, in Los Angeles, and shoots him point-blank. Bellon's luggage and passport are stolen. Meanwhile, on television, news accounts of the murder allude to the police seeking not a French killer but an American one. Bellon stays in Los Angeles to discover the truth. Apparently, another hit man named Lenny  has been hired to kill Bellon. Along the way, Bellon encounters a beautiful woman named Nancy , who offers to help. As he attempts to save his own life, Bellon hijacks a car and holds a woman  and her son hostage.The film opens as Bobby James with friends Phones, Hoppy, Gordo, and a myriad of extras skate to work on the Venice, California boardwalk. Meanwhile in Beverly Hills, Terry Barkley, genius flautist is also heading towards the beach in her Excalibur Phateon car. She also is joined by her stuck-up girlfriend Lana. Bobby is skating on the boardwalk with a female friend when he encounters Terry. But she remains aloof and spurns his advance. Later they meet at a local skating rink called Jammers. During a near catastrophic skating incident where Bobby saves the day, she gives in. Terry wants to pay him to teach her how to skate for the Roller Disco contest. Even though they share a flirty, romantic couples skate, later on she rebuffs him yet again. The next day has both Terry and Bobby getting flack from their respected friends and family. She has had enough and goes to the beach. She finds Bobby there, practicing a jump and turns on the charm. He shares with her his dream to become an Olympic Roller Skater. They end up making out on the beach. Bobby asks her if she's going to pay him for sex as well, which garners a mighty slap in return and she takes off. Terry goes home and has a row with her mother. She wants to give up her dreams of playing Classical Flute at Juilliard School and win a roller disco contest at the beach. Her mom is shocked, enough so she needs a Valium. Terry decided to run away. The next morning, she calls and invites Bobby to breakfast where she apologizes. He wants to skate with her, but on his terms: no money; he calls the shot. Through a series of outdoor scenes we see them work together to form a routine. Unfortunately, Jammers is about to be sold to a ruthless mob developer. Bobby and Terry are clued into this plot and try to get her father, a lawyer, to help. But he refuses. The skaters find evidence to kill the deal and race to get it to the cops on time. They do, the mobsters are hauled off and the Boogie Contest is on. Terry and Bobby skate their routine and win. Later on, back at the beach Terry and Bobby share a sad goodbye. Both promise to write each other as she heads off to New York City and him to the Olympics.Veteran stuntman Sonny Hooper , known in Hollywood as "the greatest stuntman alive," is currently working as Adam West's stunt double on the fictitious action film The Spy Who Laughed at Danger. Hooper's on-set antics and wisecracks are a trial for egotistical director Roger Deal , and even more so for Deal's bossy assistant Tony , who gets Hooper in trouble with the Humane Society over a stunt involving a dog. Added to which the years of self-abuse on and off the set are fast catching up with Hooper, with the numerous stunts—and an addiction to painkillers—beginning to take their toll on his body. Hooper lives with his girlfriend Gwen Doyle , whose father Jocko  is a retired stuntman himself. Upon coming home from work one evening, Hooper is goaded by a friend into performing at a weekend benefit show. It is there that he first meets Delmore "Ski" Shidski , a young newcomer who makes his entrance in spectacular style, much to Hooper's chagrin. Hooper and Ski become friends that night after a barroom brawl with a pack of rowdy out-of-towners, including football great Terry Bradshaw. Later everybody goes to an after-hours party at Hooper's place where he shows his stunt reel , and Hooper invites Ski to begin working for Hooper on the new film. Unknowingly, they begin an escalating but friendly rivalry with the stunts becoming more and more spectacular—and dangerous. After a freefall from a record 224 feet, Hooper becomes more aware of his own mortality, and surreptitiously consults with his doctor about his condition. The doctor tells Hooper that one more bad jolt in his neck could render him a quadriplegic. The pompous Roger decides to re-write the film script, adding even more stunts to the film, not the least of which is a climactic earthquake at the film's end, complete with explosions and fires. Hooper and Ski would need to race through the carnage to a gorge with the bridge self-destructing before they can cross it. Roger initially suggests the duo rappel down one side of the gorge and up the other to safety, but Ski comes up with another idea: Fly a rocket car over the gorge. Roger immediately takes a shine to this, ignoring the fears of the producer and the chief engineer that Sonny and Ski might not survive. That evening, Hooper meets up with Gwen at the hospital; Jocko has suffered a stroke. Seeing the old stuntman laid out in a hospital bed jolts Sonny's thinking, and he confides in Gwen that this will be his last movie. Hooper and Gwen return home to find Sonny's pal and assistant Cully  waiting for them. Slightly intoxicated, Cully reveals he has been fired from the movie due to budget cuts; Hooper and Ski were to split a $100,000 bonus for the final stunt. Cully then reveals to Gwen the rocket car stunt and Hooper's visit to his doctor, both of which Sonny was keeping secret from Gwen. Hooper later tells a disgruntled Roger that he's backing out of the rocket car stunt, but Max Berns, the producer of the film and Hooper's friend, persuades Sonny to return and do the stunt—no one else is available, or willing, to do it. Hooper leaves for the studio, with Gwen, in a futile last-ditch attempt to change Sonny's mind, saying she wouldn't be there when he comes back. Sonny and Ski perform the massive stunt perfectly and, as expected, they land hard in the rocket car at the other end of the gorge. Ski emerges okay, but the impact is more of a shock to Sonny's system. Gwen tearfully pushes her way through the crowd as the film crew frantically pries open the passenger door to get Hooper out. Gwen is terrified that the jolt is finally one too many, but Sonny slowly comes out of his temporary unconsciousness and takes Gwen in his arms as the crowd cheers wildly. Max promptly fires Tony. And just for the hell of it, Hooper lands a hard punch to Roger's face, then walks off with Gwen, Ski, Cully and a crutch-bound Jocko by his side.Six-year-old Johan, nicknamed "Fimpen", is an extraordinary talented football  player. He is discovered and recruited to Hammarby IF and the Swedish national team. Performing in the 1974 World Cup qualification, he is promoted to idol status but finds it difficult to keep up in school.Eleven-year-old Napoleon  lives with his grandfather . He and his grandfather adopt a lion named Major when by chance they meet an old clown who cannot take him back to Europe. The old lion has bad teeth and only drinks milk so they put Major in the chicken cage to look after him. When Napoleon's grandfather dies of old age, Napoleon asks a young grad student named Danny  to help bury his grandfather. Uncertain about his future Napoleon runs off with the lion, a pet rooster, and his friend Samantha  to try to find Danny, now a goat herder who lives in the mountains, and so Napoleon can avoid being sent to an orphanage. Along their way, the two children encounter many dangers. Napoleon nearly falls off a cliff, but Major manages to pull him up with a rope. They have to cross a river which Major does not like, being a cat who's afraid of water. The rooster is chased by a mountain lion but soon the tables are turned and the cougar is chased up a tree by Major. While Napoleon is out looking for wood he comes across an angry bear that chases him back to where Samantha is resting with Major. At first, Major is too tired and wants to sleep while Samantha desperately tries to wake him. But as soon as the lion hears the roar of the bear and stands up to challenge his opponent. The two beasts fight hard but the lion easily defeats the bear and chases him away. Eventually the children find Danny's cabin and he takes them in with the hope of convincing Napoleon that orphanages really aren't that bad. Danny leaves the kids with a man he recently met and attempts to find Samantha's family to notify them but he is arrested and accused of kidnapping the children. While at the police station, Danny notices a photo of the man he left the kids with, who happens to be a dangerous psychopath and escapes to rescue them. He steals a motorcycle and the police chase him all the way back to his cabin where they find and arrest the wanted man. When things are back to normal, Napoleon takes Major and tries to run away again to live with the Indians but Danny catches up. Danny explains that the Indians don't really live out in the wild anymore and that Napoleon should give foster care a try with a promise that Major could stay in the mountains and live with him. Napoleon agrees and they go back to Danny's cabin. Major  was a film veteran, having appeared in Tarzan movies with Mike Henry and the television series with Ron Ely, as well as being used as the MGM logo's Leo the Lion since 1957.The plot involves Tibbs' investigation of the murder of a prostitute, of which a liberal street preacher and political organizer, played by Martin Landau, is accused.The film revolves around three people - Lord Nicholas Dorset and his wife Britt, for whom luxury is a necessity, and their bank manager Mr. Graham. Over the years Mr. Graham has devised a plan to rob his own bank. His clients desperate financial straits make them ideal accomplices in his eyes, but to ensure their loyalty he makes love to Britt after sending her husband away, and bribes Nick with a retainer. The robbery scheme is dependent on timing and must be carried out on a Friday - the perfect Friday. With careful planning the simple, neat crime is eventually accomplished. But when their perfect crime has been completed each mistrusts the other - and with £300,000 at stake the three robbers have a lot to lose. It is noted for its snappy dialogue and charming chemistry between Baker and Andress. The underlying message of the film is about class in 1970s Britain. It has not yet been released on DVD.Charley Varrick is a crop-duster and former stunt pilot by trade. The aging trailer-park dweller has clearly not been too successful. Together with three others, including his wife Nadine and edgy Harman Sullivan, a heavily disguised Varrick robs a small bank in Tres Cruces, New Mexico. During the robbery, two policemen and the fourth robber are killed and Nadine is mortally wounded. Varrick and Sullivan find themselves with $750,000&nbsp;&mdash; far more money than they expected. The bank manager, timid Harold Young, reports only $2,000 stolen. Realizing they have stolen the proceeds of a mob money laundering operation, Varrick and Sullivan find themselves in trouble not only with the police but with several shady characters, in particular mob money man Maynard Boyle and an amoral hired killer called Molly. Also being threatened by his partner Sullivan, who wants to spend the money immediately rather than lying low for years until the heat is off, Varrick decides to double-cross him before Sullivan can do the same to him. He makes a plan to flee the country and puts in a rush order for two fake passports with Jewell Everett, a pretty photographer. She promptly betrays Varrick and puts Molly on his trail. The sadistic Molly catches up with Sullivan at the trailer, brutally beating and killing him while attempting to determine Varrick's whereabouts. Boyle, meanwhile, terrifies the mousy bank manager Young with the threat that the mob will suspect the robbery to be an inside job. One of the descriptions of torture that Boyle suggests will befall Young involves a pair of pliers and a blowtorch. Rather than submit to such treatment, Young commits suicide by shooting himself. Varrick flies his plane to Reno, where he surprises and seduces Boyle's secretary, Sybil Fort, who urges Varrick not to trust her boss. Nonetheless, Varrick sets up a meeting with Boyle in a remote automobile wrecking yard back in New Mexico, arriving for it in his crop duster. He greets Boyle so warmly that Molly becomes convinced the men must be partners. Molly angrily runs down Boyle with his car. Molly then proceeds to stalk Varrick, who tries to escape by plane. Molly damages the crop-duster's tail with his car before it can take off. Varrick's crippled plane flips over. Flat on his back in the wreckage, Varrick can do nothing to save himself except tell Molly where the money is hidden. Seemingly in mortal danger, Varrick has actually set a booby trap for Molly, flipping the plane on purpose, a trick he learned back in his barnstorming days. Molly goes to retrieve the hidden money and is blown up. In the remains of the explosion are a number of hundred-dollar bills and Sullivan's body, to be mistaken for that of Varrick, who had earlier switched dental records. Varrick scoops up the remaining money and makes his getaway.The plot of the movie is about newsreel cameramen and production staff who will do anything to get footage. Set between the years 1948 and 1956, when television was introduced to Australia, the film tracks the destinies of two brothers, their adventures and misadventures placed in the context of sweeping social and political changes in their native Australia as well as natural disasters. Len Maguire is constitutionally resistant to change, while his younger brother Frank Maguire welcomes any alterations in his own life and in the world around him. Events recreated in the film include Robert Menzies' return as Prime Minister of Australia, the 1951 referendum to ban the communist party, Post-war immigration to Australia, the combatting of the rabbit plague, the 1955 Hunter Valley floods and the 1956 introduction of television in Australia.Set in 1953, the film explores the budding relationship between Billy Joe McAllister  and Bobbie Lee Hartley  , despite resistance from Hartley's family, who contend she is too young to date. One night at a jamboree, McAllister gets drunk and seems nauseous and confused when entering a makeshift whorehouse behind the gathering. It turns out that in his inebriated state, he had sex with another man, later revealed to be his sawmill boss, Dewey Barksdale . After disappearing for days, he returns to bid an enigmatic goodbye to Bobbie Lee. Overcome with guilt, Billy Joe subsequently kills himself by jumping off the bridge spanning the Tallahatchie River. In the film's final scene, Bobbie Lee meets Dewey on the bridge as she is leaving town, and he guiltily confesses to her that he was the man. She tells Barksdale, who is on his way to her house to confess to her father, that the town already suspects that she is carrying Billy Joe's baby and that it would do no good for Barksdale to confess now. Agreeing with the girl's logic, Barksdale offers Bobbie Lee a ride to the bus station, which she courteously accepts.The opening titles set the film in "North America – 1991." Armando  explains that in 1983 , a disease killed the world's cats and dogs, leaving humans with no pets. To replace them, humans began keeping apes as household pets. Realizing the apes' capacity to learn and adapt, humans train them to perform household tasks. By 1991, American culture is based on ape slave labor. Armando and Caesar , a young chimpanzee horseback rider in Armando's circus, distribute flyers around a large city to advertise the circus' arrival. Armando warns the chimpanzee to be careful; should anyone learn his identity as the son of Cornelius and Zira, it would mean their deaths. They see apes performing various menial tasks, and are shocked at the harsh discipline on disobedient apes. Seeing an ape being beaten and drugged, Caesar shouts, "Lousy human bastards!" Quickly, Armando takes responsibility for the exclamation, explaining to the policemen that it was he who shouted, not his chimpanzee. The surrounding crowd becomes agitated, and Caesar flees. Hiding in a stairway, Armando tells Caesar he will go to the authorities and bluff his way out of the situation. Meantime, Caesar has to hide among his own kind  and soon finds himself being trained for slavery through violent conditioning. He is then sold at auction to Governor Breck ([[Don Murray . Breck allows the ape to name himself by randomly pointing to a word in a book handed to him and the chimpanzee's finger rests upon the name "Caesar", feigning coincidence. Caesar is then put to work by Breck's chief aide, MacDonald , who sympathizes with the apes to the thinly veiled disgust of his boss. MacDonald eventually figures out who Caesar really is. Meanwhile, Armando is being interrogated by Inspector Kolp , who suspects his "circus ape" is the child of the two talking apes from the future. Kolp's assistant puts Armando under an authenticator machine that psychologically forces people to be truthful. Rather than confessing, Armando fights the guard and jumps through a window, falling to his death. Learning of the death of his foster father, the only human that cared for him, Caesar loses faith in human kindness and begins plotting a rebellion. Secretly, Caesar teaches combat to other apes and has them gather weapons. Meanwhile, Breck learns from Kolp that the vessel which supposedly delivered Caesar is from a region with no native chimpanzees. Suspecting Caesar is the ape the police are hunting, Breck's men arrest Caesar and electrically torture him until he speaks. Hearing him speak, Breck orders Caesar's immediate death. Caesar survives his execution because MacDonald lowers the machine's electrical output well below lethal levels. Once Breck leaves, Caesar kills his torturer and escapes. Caesar leads an ape revolt against Ape Management. The apes are victorious after killing most of the riot police. After bursting into Breck's command post and killing most of the personnel, Caesar has Breck marched out to be executed. MacDonald is spared, and he appeals to Caesar to show mercy to his former persecutor. Caesar ignores him, and in a rage declares: {{quote}} As the apes raise their rifles to beat Breck to death, Lisa , Caesar's love interest, voices her objection, "NO!" She is the first ape to speak other than Caesar. Caesar reconsiders and orders the apes to lower their weapons, saying: {{quote}}Sam Farragut  is a sociopathic business executive in Southern California who forces a team of advertising agency employees  to embark on a dangerous dirtbike trip to the Baja California desert in order to compete for his business. The men are Warren Summerfield , a suicidal middle-aged ad executive who has been fired from the agency; the straightlaced Paul McIlvain  who is inattentive to his wife , and brash art designer Maxon  who feels suddenly trapped after his girlfriend  announces she is pregnant. There are numerous long sequences of motorcycle riding on desert backroads. Summerfield has been having an affair with McIlvian's wife. He has not told his wife  that he was fired and is simply serving out his tenure at the agency while looking for a new position. His wife is actually aware of the affair. Farragut convinces the ad men to make the motorcycle journey on the pretext of looking for a location to shoot a commercial. In reality, Farragut is reckless and looking to involve the men in spontaneous edgy adventure of his own manipulation. After they leave, McIlvain's wife suspects that Summerfield is planning to kill himself for the insurance money, but she cannot convince Summerfield's wife to instigate a search. The four men travel deeper into Mexico on isolated dirt roads. At one point Summerfield contemplates plunging off a cliff. After being humiliated by a young American couple in a Baja bar, Farragut tracks them down on the beach while accompanied by Maxon. He tries to offer the young man one hundred dollars in order to sleep with his girlfriend, claiming he is a "hippie with money." Although rebuffed, he persists and is soon fought by the young man. Although the young man appears to be winning the fight, Farragut seizes an axe and destroys the radiator of the couple's car. After returning to the others, Farragut and Maxon don't inform them of the incident. They are later confronted by the Mexican police who tell them that the young man died trying to hike to safety and that the girl may die as well. Overnight in the town, Summerfield discovers the truth and tries to convince McIlvain to help him turn Farragut in to the police. McIlvain resists out of prudency. The next morning, Farragut and Maxon leave on their own for the airport to fly home. They are pursued by Summerfield, who catches up with them. Maxon returns to the town, and Farragut pursues Summerfield across the desert in a motorcycle chase. As Farragut chases Summerfield along a high cliff, Summerfield ditches his bike while Farragut loses control and plunges over the cliff to his fiery death. The three ad men return to the U.S. with Farragut's remains. McIlvain's wife informs him she wants a divorce. Maxon's girlfiend tells him she is no longer pregnant, implying she has had an abortion. Summerfield, with a new lease on life, is greeted warmly by his wife.Joe Thanks  is a genius conman. He conducts various schemes with his two friends: Half-breed Steam Engine Bill  and his girlfriend Lucy . Lucy loves both men, and they in turn both vie for her affection. Joe formulates an extremely elaborate plan to steal $300,000 from Major Cabot , an Indian-hating cavalry man, and in doing so save the Indian land he is trying to steal. Every time the plan seems to be failing, Joe has another trick up his sleeve. The movie climaxes with a stagecoach chase and a gigantic explosion.When the department store Santa Claus gets drunk before taking part in the Thanksgiving parade, Karen Walker , the parade director, fires him and must find a replacement immediately. She spots an old man ([[Sebastian Cabot  berating the inebriated Santa, and begs him to take over. He claims his name is Kris Kringle. Kris does so well during the parade that he is immediately hired to be the store's main Santa for the holiday period. All the children in New York begin to believe that he is the real Santa, with the exception of Karen's six-year-old daughter Susan . Karen's boyfriend, Bill Schafner ([[David Hartman , does his best to convince Susan to believe. While being babysat one night by Kris, Susan shares with him her Christmas wish, she would like a dad, a house, and a baby brother. Kris asks if she would begin to believe in Santa if she got all those things. Susan agrees that she would. Kris is credited with bringing in many more sales to the store than previous years, until one night, when he is arrested, then sanctioned for supposedly assaulting a man on the street. Later, the truth emerges, that the man he assaulted was the original drunk Santa, who set up Kris to be arrested, with the help of members of staff from a rival department store. The case ends up in court. It soon becomes clear that to get Kris acquitted and freed, Bill must prove that not only does Santa exist, but that Kris is the real one. It is a seemingly impossible task until Bill comes up with a plan that requires some help from Susan.Picking up almost exactly where the original "Secret Rivals" ended: the death of the dreaded Silver Fox. Mourning over the death of Silver Fox is his brother, Gold Fox , who vows revenge against Northern Leg and Southern Fist. But Gold Fox is unable to find Southern Fist and must instead fight his brother , who is saved in the nick of time by Northern Leg. After escaping, the two once again need to combine to defeat their dreaded enemy. But Gold Fox has taken precautions--he's brought backup: four expert kickers and four expert boxers.In Northern Italy in 1944, the entire population of the village of Reanoto is massacred by the SS for helping the Italian resistance movement. The only survivors are a group of young boys in ages from 7 to 14 led by Aldo  who witness the mass execution and vow revenge. That night, a detachment of US Army paratrooper saboteurs jump into the area with a mission to destroy a strategic dam with the partisans prior to the Fifth United States Army's advance into the area. Their drop zone has been discovered by the Germans, who kill them all except the leader of the paratroopers, Captain Turner , who is rendered unconscious and goes unnoticed by the Germans when he lands in the branches of a tree. The Germans capture the demolition equipment from the dead Americans. Aldo and his friends rescue Turner by spiriting him away from the ambush. Realising that Turner needs medical attention, they kidnap a German female doctor  to nurse him to health, and keeping her captive even after Turner's recovery. In order to avenge the massacre, Aldo wants the American Captain to train him and his friends in the use of military weapons and tactics. Turner uses the opportunity as a second chance to complete his sabotage mission, using the boys instead of his late command. He has the boys steal the captured American demolition gear from the Germans, but Aldo hides the detonators until Turner leads them in their revenge. Turner and his "Dead End Kids" are pursued by Wehrmacht Captain Von Hecht , a professional soldier who is against the methods of the SS, which he considers to be counter-productive.Joe Turner  is a CIA employee  who works in a clandestine office in New York City. He reads books, newspapers, and magazines from around the world, looking for hidden meanings and new ideas. As part of his duties, Turner files a report to CIA headquarters on a low-quality thriller novel his office has been reading, pointing out strange plot elements therein, and the unusual assortment of languages into which the book has been translated. On the day in which Turner expects a response to his report, a group of armed men, led by an Alsatian assassin later identified as Joubert , executes the six people in the office. Turner escapes death because at the moment of the incursion, he was out of the office getting lunch. Realizing he is in danger when he returns to the office and discovers his coworkers' bodies, Turner calls the CIA New York headquarters, and is given instructions to meet some agents who will take care of him. The meeting, however, is a trap, and Turner escapes an attempt to kill him. Needing a place to hide, Turner forces a woman, Kathy Hale , whom he sees randomly in a ski shop, to take him to her apartment in Brooklyn Heights. He holds her prisoner while he attempts to figure out what's going on. However, his hiding place is discovered. A hitman, disguised as a postman with a parcel that must be signed for, shows up at the apartment. Turner opens the door and a fight ensues. Turner kills the hitman. Realizing that he cannot trust anyone within the CIA, Turner begins to play a cat-and-mouse game with Higgins , the CIA deputy director of the New York division. With the help of Hale, Turner abducts Higgins, who reveals through questioning that the killer was a Frenchman named Joubert. Higgins discovers that the postman who attacked Turner in Hale's apartment was a former U.S. Marine Corps Gunnery Sergeant and CIA operative who had collaborated with Joubert on a previous operation. The mastermind of that operation, however, is revealed to be Leonard Atwood , the CIA Deputy Director of Operations and Higgins' superior. Meanwhile, using material he found on the fake postman's body, Turner finds where Joubert is staying, then uses his skills as a former telephone lineman to trace a call Joubert makes from his hotel room. He then finds the name and address of the person Joubert called: Atwood. Turner confronts Atwood at his home late at night and questions him at gunpoint. Turner learns that the report he had filed had uncovered a secret plan to take over Middle East oilfields, setting in motion the killing of all the members in his section. Joubert surprises them, takes away Turner's pistol, and unexpectedly kills Atwood. The contract has now changed: even though Atwood had hired Joubert to terminate Turner before, Atwood's superiors have now hired Joubert to terminate Atwood. Turner is dumbfounded, realizing that Joubert and he are on the same side, working once again for the CIA. Joubert is disarmingly courteous, suggesting that Turner leave the country, even become an assassin himself since Turner had shown such resourcefulness in staying alive. Turner rejects the suggestions, but seems to take seriously Joubert's warning that the CIA will still try to kill him. Joubert even muses aloud on how Turner's killing would likely be carried out. Turner goes back to New York City and meets Higgins on a busy street. Higgins defends the oil-fields plan, claiming that there will be a day in which oil shortages will cause a major economic crisis for the country. And when that day comes, Americans will want the government to use any means necessary to obtain the oil. Turner says he has told the press "a story" , but Higgins questions Turner's assurances that the story will be printed. After a brief dialogue, an anxious Turner glances at Higgins and The New York Times office, then hastily walks away. The final shot is a freeze frame of Turner passing behind a Salvation Army band singing Christmas carols while looking over his shoulder back at Higgins.Con artist Latigo Smith is on board a train traveling across frontier-era Colorado, with his would-be fiancée, a rich and powerful woman named Goldie. Looking for a way to escape this situation, he manages to slip off the train at a jerkwater stop, and finds himself in Purgatory, a small town wherein two rival companies of miners, led by Taylor Barton and Colonel Ames, are in a frantic round-the-clock race to find "the motherlode" of gold buried somewhere under the town. After consulting the town doctor about getting an embarrassing Goldie-related tattoo removed, Latigo succumbs to a gambling compulsion and loses all his money at roulette. After hearing a rumor that an infamous gunslinger named "Swifty" Morgan is expected in town, Latigo concocts a scam, using the amiable ne'er-do-well Jug May to impersonate the man. In the process of this, the new arrival attracts the attention of Patience "The Sidewinder" Barton, the hot-tempered daughter of Taylor, who wants nothing more than to escape the town and become a woman of refinement in New York City . When Latigo and the fake Swifty side with the Bartons, Ames sends a telegram to the real gunslinger, informing him of the impostor. Swifty soon arrives in town. Latigo has replaced Jug for the climactic gunfight and sits atop a jackass-load of dynamite, attempting to bluff the gunfighter. The show-down ends with one of the massive mining blasts that regularly rock the town. Swifty is startled and accidentally shoots himself in the foot, and the panicked jackass, with Latigo aboard, blows up in the saloon. This blast uncovers the mother lode for the Bartons, and also burns off Latigo's troublesome tattoo. Latigo's gambling compulsion finally pays off when, financially backed by the Bartons, he wins big at roulette , betting $10,000 on the final outcome. Now almost as rich as Patience, he marries her. According to a monologue delivered by Jug from the back of a train at the end of the movie, Morgan is still trying to get his boot off, Patience doesn't get to go to the school in New York that she had mentioned in the movie, but sends her seven daughters to that school, and Jug goes on to "become a big star in Italian westerns."{{Plot}} Three young men arrive at Borstal by prison van: Carlin, who has taken the blame for his brother's theft of scrap metal; Angel for stealing a car; and Davis, sent here after escaping from an open institution. All three are allocated to their rooms; Angel and Davis sent to private rooms, and Carlin sent to a dormitory. Carlin wants to keep a low profile, having been transferred for assaulting a warder. He meets and befriends Archer, an eccentric and intellectual inmate intent on using non-violent means to cause as much of a nuisance to the staff as possible, and is informed his reputation is already known; Banks, the current "Daddy"  is seeking Carlin for a fight. Carlin struggles to settle into the dormitory, and after having watched the timid and bullied Davis be attacked by Banks, is eventually beaten by Banks and his friends in an unprovoked attack. Carlin eventually gets his revenge on Banks. In the film's iconic scene, he uses a makeshift cosh from a long sock with two snooker balls inside to beat Banks's crony, then confronts Banks in the bathroom and replaces him as the “Daddy” of the ward. Carlin later acquires power over the adjacent wing of the borstal by administering a vicious beating to the adjacent wing's Daddy. Life improves for the inmates under Carlin, with victimisation of younger, weaker prisoners prevented, along with racially-motivated violence. Carlin gains status with the warders. He persuades them to move him from the dormitory to a single cell in return for an agreement to be responsible in his status as a "natural leader". Goodyear offers Carlin a position of leadership in the borstal to help him develop his leadership skills. Davis is framed for theft by Eckersley and placed on report. Carlin advises Davis to avoid them; but Davis is subsequently gang-raped. This is seen by a warder who merely smiles at the rape. Davis slips into despair, and kills himself when he slashes himself in his cell at night. Whilst bleeding to death, he presses the button in his cell for help, but is ignored by warder Greaves. Davis’ suicide causes mass hysteria within the prison, with the inmates refusing to eat their food at dinner. Carlin initiates a full-scale riot in the dinner hall. The boys are shown being dragged unconscious into solitary confinement. The Borstal's Governor later informs them the damage to the dinner hall will be repaid through lost earnings. The film ends with The Governor declaring a minute's silent prayer for Davis and Toyne.The story centers on a 1931 heiress kidnapped for ransom by a brutal gang, whose mentally-impaired "leader" ([[Scott Wilson   falls in love with her. It was previously filmed in England in 1949 under its original title, and the central conceit was that the heiress, who felt stifled by her upper-class life-style, fell in love with the abductor and his comparative freedom to live his life on the edge. In this remake, Aldrich and Griffiths reversed this angle; here, she merely strings him along in an attempt to escape. This version was also played more for laughs, in particular the outlandishly deranged behavior of the gang.In the Framing Story, a psychiatrist in a high tech modern mental asylum, Dr. Tremayne , discusses a bold new psychiatric theory with colleague Dr. Nicholas . Tremayne uses four patients who went insane - Paul, Timothy, Brian, and Auriol - to illustrate the theory, presenting each in turn to Nicholas: In Mr. Tiger, Paul  is the sensitive and introverted young son of constantly bickering parents Sam  and Fay Patterson . Amid the unhappy domestic situation, he befriends an "imaginary" tiger. Features David Wood as Paul's tutor Phillipe. In Penny Farthing, Timothy  an antique store owner, stocks a strange portrait of "Uncle Albert"  and a penny farthing bicycle. In a series of episodes, Uncle Arthur compels Timothy to mount the bicycle, and he is transported to an earlier era where he observes the apparently mourning Beatrice , who was young Albert's love interest. These travels place Timothy's girlfriend Ann  in peril. Features Neil Kennedy and Richard Connaught as the removal men. In Mel, Brian Thompson  brings home an old dead tree, which he lovingly calls Mel, mounting it in his modern home as a bizarre piece of objet d'art. He increasingly shows unusual attention to Mel, angering his jealous wife Bella . In Luau literary agent Auriol Pageant  lasciviously courts a new client Kimo . However, he shows more interest in her beautiful young daughter Ginny . Auriol organises a sumptuous luau for him, as per the detailed instructions of Kimo's associate Keoki . However, it is actually a ceremony to assure Kimo's dying mother Malia  passage to "heaven" by appeasing a Hawaiian god, and a requirement is that he consume the flesh of a virgin: Ginny. Features Leslie Nunnerley as Vera. In the Epilogue, Nicholas has Tremayne himself declared insane, apparently for believing the patients' bizarre accounts, but manifestations of the patients' histories materialize, and "Mr. Tiger" kills Nicholas.Bill Schmidt and his long-term girlfriend Martha Wayne and their young son Hal live in a small Connecticut farmhouse owned by Martha's overbearing father. One snowy winter Sunday, two of Bill's ex-army buddies, Mike and Tony, arrive. A few years ago, they had all served together in Vietnam in the same platoon but later ended up on opposite sides of a court-martial. Bill has never told his girlfriend what happened in Vietnam or at the court-martial. The story slowly unfolds. Under orders in Vietnam not to take any prisoners, and faced with potentially hostile civilians who might attack them if left behind, Mike kills a civilian. Bill testifies against him and Mike is sent to the brig  for two years. He is angry. There is sexual tension between Mike and Martha. The tension builds and culminates in a fight and a rape.In 1909 Arizona, Captain Sam Burgade has retired from law enforcement, the Arizona Rangers. Hoping for peace and quiet, he suddenly learns that his old enemy Zach Provo has escaped from a Yuma prison with other convicts. Years before, Burgade was shot by Provo and barely survived, but later sent Provo to prison. Out for revenge, Provo does not go after a cash shipment as Burgade expects but instead kidnaps Burgade's daughter, Susan. The six escaped men form an ambush. Provo allows two of them who lust after Susan to sexually assault her, assuming Burgade will show himself in an attempt to rescue her. Burgade has been knocked unconscious, however, and is unable to intervene. Setting a fire to smoke out the fugitives, Burgade is able to dispose of them one by one until only Provo is left. But he finds himself at gunpoint, then is shot by Provo several times and about to die when he is able to retaliate at last.Sir William Mainwaring-Brown, a British Government Minister, puts forward a bill to battle filth  in the UK. However, that doesn't stop him having an affair with both Miss Parkyn  and Wendy . Opponents to the bill - mainly some hippies, led by Johnny - kidnap the Minister's best friend and co-founder of the bill, Barry Ovis, just as he is on the way to the church to marry his fiancee, Jean. Later and following a tip off by Johnny, the police raid the hippies' flat. The intention is to discredit Barry Ovis by making it appear that he was involved in an orgy and therefore, remove any credibility that the Law and Order Bill might have had. Thankfully , he escapes before the police discover him and dashes back to Sir William's flat followed by Damina, one of the hippies. Meanwhile, the Minister is also trying to use the flat to carry on his affairs with both Wendy and Miss Parkyn. The Minister, Barry and Jean try to keep the truth from Inspector Ruff, Wilfred Potts  and Birdie . Not only that, but they have to try to deal with the hippies who do their utmost to discredit Mainwaring-Brown and Ovis. Naturally this causes no end of trouble.Amos  and Theodore , the old bank robbers turned good guys, arrive in the "boom town" of Junction City, and cause havoc from the start. The duo &ndash; who had promised to go straight after the events of the first film &ndash; get into trouble when they are framed for robbery at the town bank. The robbers trick them into depositing their money, and then run off with it. The town's feared lawman, Marshal Wooly Bill Hitchcock , is determined to capture the gang and punish them for their crime, but when he catches Amos and Theodore at the bank and attempts to arrest them, their guns accidentally go off and hit Wooly Bill in the hands as witnesses look on. The accident not only makes Amos and Theodore the new "quick guns" in the town, but it makes the humiliated lawman even more determined to capture the "Apple Dumpling Gang"  Things get worse when their donkey Clarise  shows up with the stolen money when the real bank robbers in a hurry put most of the money on her saddle. As they attempt to return it by swinging it from the roof of the building across from the building, the bags land on Wooly Bill and cause even more injuries to him. To escape Hitchcock's vengeance, the pair enlist in the US Army, but after further bunglings and a run-in with the marshal they accidentally set fire to the fort. As a result of this, the fort commander Major Gaskill  loses his job and the Apple Dumplings are court martialled and sent to a military jail. This "jail" however turns out to be a cover for robber baron "Big Mac"  who recruits Amos and Theodore as hired guns for a train robbery. Still determined to "go straight", the boys try to extricate themselves from the situation by dressing up as bar-room dance girls - a disguise which bizarrely fools even Big Mac himself! In the end, with the help of an army intelligence officer  who is posing as an enlisted soldier, and their former commander's daughter Millie , they foil the robbers and are given pardons.The actors from the Benji films are on a promotional tour in Switzerland and are asked to be grand marshalls of a Christmas parade in Zermatt. Due to a broken leg Kris Kringle is sending his elves out to deliver presents, and as this will force them to miss the parade he wants them to meet Benji first. With help from the Benji actors, Kringle realises the true meaning of Christmas and performs a musical number showing how Saint Nicholas appears all over the world.Oakland, California 1967: John "Goldie" Mickens,  a small-time black drug dealer and his friend Slim  are in the middle of a shootout in a salvage yard after being set up during a botched drug deal. Realizing that they're outgunned, Goldie orders Slim to flee the salvage yard. Goldie crashes his car as he attempts to escape and is apprehended by Hank ([[Don Gordon  and Jed ([[William Watson , two corrupt, racist white police detectives. Goldie is tried in court and sentenced to five years in the California State Penitentiary. In prison Goldie almost becomes stir crazy and struggles to maintain his sanity. Five years later, in 1972 Goldie is released from prison and returns to Oakland on a charter bus. He immediately goes into a pool hall where he's reunited with his mentor The Blind Man ,{{disambiguation needed}} an aging street hustler and pimp. The Blind Man decides to help Goldie get back on his feet by turning him on to pimping and gives him his first lessons on being a successful pimp: "A pimp is only as good as his product, and his product is women. Now you've got to go out there and get the best ones you can find. And you've got to work them broads like nobody's ever worked them before. And never forget: anybody can control a woman's body, you see, but the key is to control her mind." After meeting with the Blind Man, Goldie goes to a nightclub where he bumps into Lulu , a childhood girlfriend who is now a prostitute. Lulu tells Goldie that, because she's an "outlaw" , that she is constantly antagonized by pimps who are trying to force her to "choose" . Lulu pleads with Goldie to become her pimp and, although initially hesitant, he accepts. As Goldie leaves the bar he's met by Hank and Jed, who harass and intimidate him. Goldie then goes to the apartment of his humble and deeply-religious mother  who pleads with Goldie to go to church with her and to abandon his criminal ways. In their conversation it's revealed that the Mickens family relocated to California from Alabama after Goldie's father was murdered. Goldie rejects his mother's pleas, reasoning that he has to face "the man" the only way that he knows how to. Goldie then heads to a meeting where his younger brother Olinga , a Black Nationalist, is giving a speech about creating a "Black America Within But Without White America". The two brothers reunite and Goldie informs Olinga that he's going to get his life together, not disclosing to Olinga that he's decided to become a pimp, something that he knows Olinga strongly disapproves of. As Goldie sits in a barber shop he overhears the conversations of several pimps, including the cocky and boisterous Pretty Tony  and Frank Ward, the real-life pimp who the film is based on. Goldie begins soaking up the attitude and mentality of a pimp and immediately develops a cold-hearted attitude. This is displayed in the following scene in Lulu's apartment where, after having sex with Lulu and reminiscing on their difficult childhoods, Goldie coldy moves Lulu's arm off of him and struts to a mirror to look at himself. After being fronted money by the Blind Man in order to get started out Goldie begins pimping, with Lulu as his "bottom bitch" and Slim as his partner in crime . A montage set to the film's theme song show Goldie's rapid success as a pimp, recruiting several prostitutes including Chico , a loud and sassy prostitute, and Diane  a young white woman from a wealthy family who becomes Goldie's favorite hooker. Goldie moves his mother out of her tenement apartment and into an upscale condominium. Goldie teaches his prostitutes how to rob clients and shoplift from expensive department stores. Goldie maintains his sway over the young women by brainwashing them, giving them speeches at a makeshift theater where he tells them what he requires of them as they watch an eleborate film display. As Goldie's rise to success becomes evident he's confronted with several antagonists. The first is a black gambler who intends to rob Goldie. Goldie and Slim accost the man at gunpoint, lock him in the trunk of Goldie's 1971 Cadillac Eldorado, filling the trunk with rats and drive around Oakland with the man screaming in the trunk as the rodents eat away at him before finally dropping him off in front of a hospital. The second antagonist is the Fat Man , a white heroin kingpin who Goldie worked for before going to prison. The Fat Man is jealous of Goldie's success and wants Goldie to return to work for him in order to control him. Additionally The Fat Man is angered because Olinga and his group have abducted several black drug dealers under the Fat Man's employ in order to turn them into Black Nationalists and to stop them from selling drugs in the black community. Hank and Jed are also angered by Olinga's interferrence with their drug racket and routinely brutalize and harass Goldie in an attempt to get Olinga to stop. Goldie and Olinga argue with one another about their activities. Olinga tries to get Goldie to see that pimping black women is no better than drug dealing, as both crimes involve exploiting black people. Goldie tells Olinga that he'll support him in ridding the ghetto of the drug dealers, but tells Olinga not to send his group after Goldie. Olinga asserts that, in order to fix the ghetto, they have to get rid of the drug dealers and the pimps at the same time. After Hank and Jed murder Sgt. Duncan , a black police detective who confronted the pair about their illegal activities, they unsuccessfully try to pin the murder on Goldie and Slim, even going so far as trying to force Goldie and Slim to run away from them at gunpoint so that the detectives can shoot them and claim that they attempted to evade arrest. It is at this point that Goldie begins to contemplate his lifestyle and it's inevitable consequences. Goldie, along with Slim, Lulu and Diane, attend the Player's Ball, an annual gala event highlighting Bay Area pimps. During the festivities the Fat Man once again attempts to force Goldie into working for him. Goldie once again refuses and lambasts the Fat Man for being so greedy that he's even willing to sell drugs to children. Goldie celebrates with Slim, Lulu and Diane and is awarded "Mack of the Year" at the Player's Ball. The scene then cuts to several days later as Goldie finds Diane dead in a hotel room. When Goldie examines her corpse he notices needle marks on her arm and realizes that she's been killed by the Fat Man as a way to get back at Goldie. Goldie meets with the Fat Man in a vacant lot. The Fat Man intends to have his henchman kill Goldie, however the attempt on Goldie's life is thwarted when Slim, disguised as a homeless man playing an accordion, kills the Fat Man's bodyguards. Goldie, Slim and several of their associates then subdue the Fat Man and kill him by injecting him with battery acid. While gambling at an after hours spot, Goldie and Pretty Tony get into an argument after Pretty Tony's top hooker, China Doll , humiliates Pretty Tony by leaving him and "choosing" Goldie in front of the other hustlers at the crap table. Pretty Tony threatens Goldie, telling him "You're gonna wish you was never born, nigga!" and leaves. Later an unidentified man knocks on Goldie's mother's door, announcing himself as "A friend of Goldie's". When Goldie's mother answers the door the man points a gun at her. Goldie visits his mother at the hospital. She has been severely beaten by the assailant and is unconscious. She awakens to find Goldie at her bedside, who lies to her and tells her that the doctor says she will be alright. Broken-hearted and disappointed, she looks away from Goldie and slips into death. Goldie and Slim track down Pretty Tony. After a brief shootout they chase Pretty Tony into an abandoned warehouse. Pretty Tony stabs Slim with his cane sword, but only causes a minor injury. Goldie and Slim hold Pretty Tony at gunpoint while Goldie forces Pretty Tony to stab himself in the buttocks repeatedly with the sword as payback for stabbing Slim. Goldie and Slim then bind Pretty Tony to a chair and gag him with a stick of dynamite, then leave as a helpless Pretty Tony is blown through a warehouse window when the explosives detonate. Hank and Jed arrive to investigate the murder. At their mother's funeral Olinga tells a grief-stricken Goldie that he's "brought death to their house" because of his criminal activities and that, because of this, he's going to help Goldie get revenge against the people responsible for their mother's murder. Outside of the funeral home the Blind Man informs Goldie that someone's put a contract out on his life. Slim and several of their friends help Goldie evade the would-be hitmen by disguising themselves as movers and getting Goldie out of his condominium as the hitmen arrive to kill him. Goldie and Slim split up to meet at a rendezvous point. When Goldie arrives at the rendezvous point he finds an accordion with Slim's blood on it. Hank and Jed appear with their guns drawn on Goldie and confirm that they've killed Slim. The detectives then reveal that they, not Pretty Tony, killed his mother. As they do so Olinga appears from the inside of a vacant building and strangles Jed to death as Goldie disarms a distracted Hank. Hank attempts to plead for his life by claiming that he and Goldie are the same and that Goldie would have done the same thing to Hank. Goldie kills Hank execution-style as Olinga watches. Goldie walks over to Hank and Jed's car and finds Chico sitting in the backseat. Chico, resentful of Goldie's favorable treatment of Diane over her, revealed to the corrupt cops the addresses of Goldie and his mother. Goldie contemplates shooting Chico, but relents. He throws some pocket change at her and walks away. Realizing that Oakland is now too dangerous for him to remain there, Goldie hugs Olinga goodbye and boards a charter bus leaving the city the same way he came.Based on actual events of the early twentieth century, the story concerns a grueling 700-mile cross-country horse race in 1906 and the way it affects the lives of its various participants. The colorful contestants include two former Rough Riders  who can't let friendship come between them if they intend to win, a lady of little virtue  with an ulterior motive, a punk kid , an old cowhand in poor health , an English gentleman  who's competing just for the sheer sport of it all, and a Mexican with a toothache  who literally needs to bite the bullet. All must race against a thoroughbred of championship pedigree owned by a wealthy man  who has no intention of seeing his entry lose. The film touches on the themes of sportsmanship, animal cruelty, the yellow press, racism, the end of the West and the bonds of marriage and friendship. As the race progresses, the conditions test not only the endurance of horses and riders but also their philosophies of life and the meaning of victory and defeat.Set in the Old West, the story is about robber Harker Fleet , who is sent to prison by former partner Timothy Nolan . A small band help Fleet break out of prison: now he is going to settle scores with Nolan for railroading him.Marion, a Marine recruit during World War II is kicked out of the Corps and sent home in a blue fatigue uniform. As recruits sent their civilian clothes home or sold them, the Corps did not wish less than honourably discharged Marine recruits to wear a uniform they had not earned. In real life the Corps issued light blue uniforms used by Flying Cadets prior to Pearl Harbor; hence the name "Baby Blue Marine" for a failed recruit. Ashamed, Marion meets a Marine Raider  a young, battle-scarred war hero back from the Pacific who has aged beyond his years with prematurely gray hair. As the Raider doesn't wish to return to the war, he knocks out Marion and changes uniforms with him. Marion enters an idyllic small town where the decorations and Raider shoulder sleeve insignia of his uniform make him a hero to the community whose own young men are away at the war.Johnny Paul  arrives in Oahu disguised as a flashy gambler and ladies' man. However, he is actually on a mission to stop the theft of a deadly new gas, which has the potential to cause instant death upon contact. The substance was being secretly created by a top battalion of Marines at the request of a Pentagon official. However, a double agent had infiltrated the unit, killed the executive, and assumed his identity. Paul uses his image to get close to the double agent, who is known by the pseudonym "Tree". However, once his cover is blown, it's a race against time to stop Tree from selling the secrets to an unnamed foreign power.In 2022, with 40 million people in New York City alone, housing is dilapidated and overcrowded; homeless people fill the streets and food is scarce; and most of the population survives on rations produced by the Soylent Corporation, whereof the newest product is Soylent Green, a green wafer advertised to contain "high-energy plankton", more nutritious and palatable than its predecessors "Red" and "Yellow", but in short supply. New York City Police Department detective Robert Thorn lives with his aged friend Solomon "Sol" Roth, a former scholar who helps Thorn's investigations. While investigating the murder of William R. Simonson, a director of the Soylent Corporation, Thorn questions Shirl, a concubine , and Tab Fielding, Simonson's bodyguard, who, when the murder took place, was escorting Shirl to a store selling meat "under the counter" for Simonson. Thorn later gives Roth the Soylent Oceanographic Survey Report, 2015 to 2019 found in Simonson's apartment. At the police station, Thorn tells his lieutenant  that he suspects an assassination: nothing was stolen from the apartment, its sophisticated alarm and security cameras failed to detect the intruder, and Simonson's bodyguard was conveniently absent. Continuing his investigation, Thorn visits Fielding's apartment and questions Fielding's concubine, Martha, helping himself to a teaspoon of strawberry jam, later identified by Roth as too great a luxury for the concubine of a bodyguard. Under questioning, Shirl reveals that Simonson became troubled in the days before his death. Thorn questions a Catholic priest Simonson had visited, but the priest at first fails to remember Simonson and is later unable to describe the confession. Fielding later murders the priest to silence him. New York Governor Joseph Santini, once Simonson's partner in a high-profile law firm, orders the investigation closed, but Thorn disobeys and the Soylent Corporation dispatches Simonson's murderer to kill Thorn. He tracks Thorn to a ration-distribution where police officers are providing security. When the Soylent Green there is exhausted and the crowd riots, the assassin tries to kill Thorn during the confusion, but is crushed by a riot-control vehicle. Roth takes Soylent's oceanographic reports to a like-minded group of researchers known as the Exchange, who agree that the oceans no longer produce the plankton from which Soylent Green is reputedly made, and conclude it is made from human remains. Unable to live with this discovery, Roth seeks assisted suicide at a government clinic. Thorn rushes to stop him, but arrives too late, and is thereafter mesmerized by the euthanasia's visual and auditory display of forests, wild animals, rivers, and ocean life now extinct. Under the influence of a lethal drug, Roth tells Thorn his discovery and begs him to expose the truth. To this end, Thorn stows himself aboard a garbage truck to the disposal-center, where he sees human corpses converted into Soylent Green. Returning to make his report, he is ambushed by Fielding and others; and having failed to summon his colleagues, converses with Shirl before connected to Hatcher. Thorn then retreats into a cathedral filled with homeless people, where he kills Fielding but is seriously injured. When the police arrive, Thorn urges Hatcher to spread the word that "Soylent Green is people!".Financial wizard "Doc" Fletcher  persuades his boss, American mobster Joe Fiore , to buy up a Swiss bank in order to more easily launder their ill-gotten gains. The impoverished Italian Prince Gianfranco di Siracusa  agrees to act as chairman of the board in order to give it an air of respectability. "Doc" goes to Lugano, a major center of banking activity, along with the Don's wayward son Albert , only to find that the best bank that the Prince could get consists of some shabby offices above a pizza restaurant with assets of $900. To make up for this, the Prince suggests that they invest in a silver mine recently discovered in Iran by his distant cousins, Agha Firdausi ([[David Warner  and his sister Shireen . The mine contains hundreds of millions of dollars worth of untapped silver. The Firdausis wish to keep it a secret due to the heavy taxes and the threat of the mine being nationalised by the government. Through a little wheeler-dealing, "Doc" manages to obtain $5 million in Iranian rials from Agha &mdash; as security for a loan of $20 million &mdash; and uses the money to obtain better banking premises and put on a major show that attracts powerful investors. Before long the Firdausi silver is flooding the market which leads to a drop in its value at the London Metal Exchange. Charlie Cook ([[Charles Gray , a leading figure in the silver business and one of the richest men in the world, decides that the best way to stop the downward plunge is to take over the bank responsible and thus close down the mine. He contacts Henry Foreman , president of the First National Bank of California, who is keen on branching into Europe. Foreman sends one of his accountants, Donald Luckman , to Lugano where he meets "Doc" and his associates. His questions and evasive attitude makes them suspicious and to find out more "Doc" approaches and seduces Donald's fun-loving but bored and neglected wife Debbie . In the course of their affair, Debbie casually reveals in conversation all about Cook's interest in the mine and the bank. Donald, unaware of what is going on, returns and offers up to $60 million for the bank . "Doc" will have none of it since it means losing everything he has ever worked for, but Albert and Joe Fiore, who actually owns the bank, jump at the opportunity. "Doc" goes to Las Vegas and, through a subtle threat, manages to get Joe to give him time to made a bid of his own. "Doc" and the Prince join the Firdausis at their warehouse in Dubai which is full to the brim with silver bars from the mine. When they tell him that they cannot lend him $60 million to buy the bank, "Doc" threatens to call in the earlier loan of $20 million and seize the mine. It's at this point that Agha and Shireen drop a bombshell on their two friends: there is no silver mine! The Firdausis are in fact smugglers who have obtained all their silver from India. The silver mine was just a cover, a means of obtaining the money needed for their operation. "Doc" faces a terrible dilemma: if he tells Charlie Cook that the mine does not exist the deal will collapse and "Doc" will be killed  by Joe Fiore; but if he does not tell Cook, the deal will go through and "Doc" will lose the bank. The deal does go through with Foreman and Donald Luckman sealing it with "Doc" and Albert Fiore. In his report on the purchase of the bank Donald has left out all mention of the silver mine, as per the instructions of Foreman and Cook, who was keen to keep it secret, and put the bank's main assets down as "oil storage tanks". Foreman then goes to Cook and demands an exorbitant amount for the silver mine only to be told that it does not exist and that he will thus not be refunded the $60 million used to buy the bank. Foreman can recoup $50 million in insurance since the purchase report mentions non-existent "oil storage tanks", thus making a case for fraud. "Doc" offers to give Foreman an additional $10 million which he will get from Cook who, in return, will obtain exclusive purchasing rights to the Firdausi silver. In exchange, Foreman gives "Doc" the bank &mdash; which was really only worth $10 million in the first place. Donald then reveals that for the insurance claim to be valid there will have to be a criminal prosecution and a scapegoat will be needed in order to go to prison. The others agree, deciding that it should be the one who falsified the report &mdash; meaning Donald himself! Some time later, back in Lugano, the Prince marries Shireen Firdausi, even though he was one of those whom she conned into believing in the existence of the mine. Agha does not attend the wedding and Shireen admits that he was in fact an actor she hired since she doubted if a bank would loan $20 million to a woman. "Doc" for his part comes across Debbie who has been attending Donald's trial for fraud. She has promised to get a place near the jail in order to be close to him and indicates, with a smile, that "Doc"'s house is conveniently near the prison itself.Set in Atlanta, it follows Clyde Williams  and Billy Foster  as a pair of blue-collar workers who are trying to raise funds for the Brothers and Sisters of Shaka. They decide to rig a boxing match in New Orleans. They use hypnotism to convince underdog boxer Bootney Farnsworth  that he is a highly skilled prize fighter. He fights and defeats the champion, 40th Street Black . Williams and Foster clean up after betting Farnsworth. The pair return home, and all is fine until the gangsters who lost money betting on the other guy figure out the scam and come to Atlanta, to get the pair to do it again...or be killed. Unable to enter Farnsworth's training room to dehypnotize him, which in turn would cause him to lose the fight, Williams and Foster decide to bet on the match being a draw, and place bets with both gangster groups. They then enter 40th Street Black's training room and successfully hypnotize him. Both fighters end up simultaneously knocking each other out, and Williams and Foster are able to collect their bets before the gangsters discover what happened.John Chisum , a virtuous, patriarchal land baron, locks horns with greedy Lawrence Murphy , who will stop at nothing to get control of the trade and even the law in Lincoln County. Chisum is an aging rancher with an eventful past and a paternalistic nature towards his companions and community. Murphy, a malevolent land developer, plans to take control of the county for his own personal gain. The story begins with Murphy's men tipping off Mexican rustlers who plan to steal Chisum's horses. Chisum and his sidekick Pepper  stop the bandits with help from a newcomer to the area, William Bonney , also known as Billy the Kid. A notorious killer, Billy has been given a chance to reform by Chisum's philanthropic neighbor, rancher John Tunstall . Billy also falls for Chisum's newly arrived niece, Sallie . Murphy is buying up all the stores in town and using his monopoly to push up the prices. He appoints his own sheriff and deputies. He also brings in a lawyer, Alex McSween , whose principles lead him to switch sides and seek work with Chisum and Tunstall. The two ranchers set up their own bank and general store in town under McSween's control. Chisum's land and cattle remain targets. Murphy's men attempt to steal Chisum's cattle before he can sell them to the Army. Chisum's ranch hands are warned by Pat Garrett , a passing buffalo hunter. Garrett agrees to help Chisum and soon befriends Bonney. Together they foil an attack by Murphy's men on the wagons bringing in provisions for the new store. Fed up with Murphy's underhand activities, Tunstall rides off to Santa Fe to seek the intervention of Gov. Sam Axtell ([[Alan Baxter . On the way he is intercepted by Murphy's deputies, who falsely accuse him of cattle rustling and shoot him dead. Chisum and Garrett hunt down the deputies and ride them back towards town for trial. Bonney, seeking revenge for the murder of his mentor, overpowers Garrett and shoots dead both deputies. Before Sheriff Brady  can organise a posse, Billy rides into town and kills him too. Murphy appoints bounty hunter Dan Nodeen  as the new sheriff, giving him orders to hunt down Bonney. Nodeen has a score to settle, as a previous encounter with Bonney has left him with a permanent limp. Billy's plans for revenge are only just beginning. He breaks into McSween's store looking for dynamite. He is spotted by Nodeen, who gets Murphy's men to surround the store. McSween comes out unarmed but Nodeen shoots him in cold blood. Chisum is alerted by McSween's wife  and rides into town. The main street is blocked, so Chisum stampedes his cattle through the barricades. He tracks down Murphy and takes him on in a fist fight which ends with both men falling from a balcony. Murphy ends up impaled on steer horns. With his paymaster dead, Nodeen flees with Billy in pursuit. The film ends with Garrett taking over as sheriff and settling down with Sallie. It's been learned that General Lew Wallace takes over as governor of the area. With law and order restored, Chisum can resume his iconic vigil over the Pecos valley.It is the late 1970s, and smuggler David Swansey  specialises in importing goods to war-torn Southern Rhodesia, defying international sanctions imposed on the doomed nation. Swansey is eventually contracted by the Ian Smith administration to arrange an illicit purchase of American-made Iroquois helicopters for counter-insurgency operations against black African nationalists. However, word of his plan soon reaches the latter, who apply strong political pressure to kill the deal in its cradle - the aircraft shipment in question is impounded upon reaching neighbouring South-West Africa. Meanwhile, one of the many indigenous guerillas resisting the white supremacist policies of the Rhodesian regime is Gideon Marunga , veteran combatant and reluctant participant in atrocities directed against unarmed civilians by his fellow insurgents. Marunga discovers that Swansey, with the aid of the Rhodesian Security Forces and South African sympathizers, hopes to lead an armed raid on the airfield where the Iroquois are being temporarily held - with the intention of stealing them across the border into Rhodesia. On the day of the assault, Marunga arrives at the airfield and stalls the attacking troopers, while his accomplices succeed in destroying some of the helicopters. In the firefight which ensues he comes face to face with Swansey, and the two men subsequently share a weary moment of reflection on their stalemate. Both abruptly part ways; the smuggler permits his enemy to escape unarmed into the night. As word of the foiled transaction spreads, Swansey finds himself unable to continue conducting business on the global scale and is restricted to Rhodesia, where he faces conscription into active duty with the armed forces. The film's storyline closes as Marunga and Swansey confront each other on the battlefield again - this time through the sights of their rifles.The story begins as Frank Morris  arrives at the maximum security prison Alcatraz, having been sent there after escaping from several other prisons. He is sent in to meet the warden , who curtly informs him that no one has ever escaped from Alcatraz. Eventually he meets his old friends, brothers John and Clarence Anglin , and he makes the acquaintance of the prisoner in the cell next to his, Charlie Butts . Morris befriends numerous other inmates, including English , a black inmate serving two life sentences for killing two white men in self-defense; the eccentric Litmus , and the elderly artist and chrysanthemum grower Doc . Morris also makes an enemy of the rapist Wolf , whom Morris beats in the shower room after Wolf attempts to come onto him. Still seething from this encounter, Wolf attacks Morris in the yard and both men spend time in the hole. When the warden discovers that Doc has painted a portrait of him, as well as other policemen on the island itself, he permanently removes Doc's painting privileges; in response, a depressed Doc cuts his fingers off with a hatchet from the prison workshop and is led away. Later, the warden finds one of Doc's chrysanthemums and crushes it in front of the inmates; an angry Litmus leaps at the warden and suffers a fatal heart attack. The warden coldly reminds Morris that some men are destined never to leave Alcatraz, alive. Morris notices that the concrete around the grille in his cell is weak and can be chipped way, which evolves into an escape plan. Over the next few months Morris, Butts and the Anglins dig through the walls of their cells with spoons , make papier-mâché dummies to act as decoys, and construct a raft out of raincoats. On the night of their escape, Butts loses his nerve and does not go with the others. Morris and the Anglin brothers make it out of the prison and are last seen paddling their raft into the night. When their escape is discovered the following morning, a massive manhunt ensues. The warden is adamant that the men drowned, despite no bodies being found. He finds a chrysanthemum on the shore of Angel Island and throws it into the bay after being told that they do not grow there.In World War II France in early September 1944, units of the 35th Infantry Division are nearing the town of Nancy when one of the division's mechanized reconnaissance platoons receives orders to pull out while under attack from the Germans. Kelly , a former lieutenant who has been demoted to private following a disastrous assault some time earlier, captures Colonel Dankhopf of German Intelligence. When Kelly notices his prisoner has a gold bar in his briefcase, he gets him drunk to try to get information about the gold. Before he is killed by an attacking German Tiger tank, the drunken Dankhopf blurts out that there is a cache of 14,000 gold bars stored in a bank vault 30 miles behind enemy lines in the town of Clermont. Kelly recruits the rest of his platoon, including skeptical Master Sergeant "Big Joe" , to sneak off and steal the gold. Eventually, others have to be recruited  into the scheme, such as an opportunistic supply sergeant "Crapgame" ; and a Sherman tank commander, "Oddball" . The expedition successfully breaks through a German-held town during a mortar barrage that has been arranged by Kelly. An American fighter plane mistakes Kelly's group for the enemy, strafing their vehicles and destroying them with rockets, forcing them to continue on foot, and three of their number die in a subsequent skirmish in and around a minefield. Meanwhile, Oddball's tanks battle their way through the German lines, but their route is blocked when the last large bridge is blown up by Allied bombers, prompting Oddball to let a bridge engineering unit in on the deal. When intercepted radio messages of the private raid are brought to the attention of gung-ho American Major General Colt , he misinterprets them as the efforts of aggressive patriots pushing forward on their own initiative and immediately rushes to the front line to exploit the "breakthrough". Kelly's men race to reach Clermont before their own army. There, they find it defended by three Tiger tanks with infantry support. The Americans are able to dispatch two of the Tigers and most of the German infantry, but as they prepare to take on the last tank, which is parked right in front of the bank, Oddball's last Sherman breaks down and cannot be repaired. Powerless to defeat the tank, Kelly offers the German tank commander a share of the loot. After the Tiger blows the bank doors off, the assembled crew finds the gold cache. After dividing the gold, the men go their separate ways, just managing to avoid meeting the still-oblivious Colt, who is delayed by celebrating town residents.The film opens with the recreation of an actual event, the assassination attempt on the President of France, Charles de Gaulle, on 22 August 1962, by the militant French underground organisation OAS in anger over the French government's decision to give independence to Algeria. The group, led by Jean Bastien-Thiry, raked de Gaulle's car, an unarmoured Citroën DS, with machine gun fire in the Paris suburb of Petit-Clamart, but the entire entourage escaped without injury. Within six months, Bastien-Thiry and several other members of the plot were caught and executed. The remaining OAS leadership decides to make another attempt, and hires a professional British assassin who chooses the code name The Jackal ([[Edward Fox . He demands half a million US dollars for his services, so to raise the Jackal's fee, OAS members rob several banks. Meanwhile, the Jackal commissions a rifle disguised as a crutch and fake identity papers. As a professional, he spares the reliable gunsmith but kills the forger who attempts to blackmail him. In Paris, he sneaks an impression of the key to a flat that overlooks a large square where de Gaulle will make an appearance on Liberation Day. The French Action Service identify and kidnap the OAS chief clerk, Adjutant Viktor Wolenski  in Italy. They use torture to extract some elements of the plot, including the word "Jackal", before he dies. The Interior Minister  convenes a secret cabinet. When asked to provide his best detective, the police commissioner recommends his own deputy, Claude Lebel . He will have any resources he needs but must avoid publicity. One of the cabinet members, St. Clair , unsuspectingly discloses the government's knowledge of the plot to his new mistress , an OAS plant who immediately passes this information on to her contact. Lebel uses an old boy network of police agencies in other countries to determine that suspect "Charles Calthrop" may be travelling under the name "Paul Oliver Duggan" and that Duggan has entered France. The Jackal decides to carry on with his plan despite the fact that his code name is known. He meets and seduces Colette de Montpellier  in a Grasse hotel. Slipping away before Lebel arrives, he steals a Peugeot 404 that collided with his Alfa Romeo Giulietta and drives it to Madame de Montpellier's estate. After sleeping with her again and discovering that the police had talked to her, he strangles her. The Jackal then assumes a new identity as a bespectacled Dane, using a stolen passport. He drives Madame de Montpellier's Renault Caravelle to a station and catches a train for Paris. Once the Montpellier's servants discover her corpse and her car is recovered at the train station, Lebel is able to abandon his previous secrecy and make an open manhunt for a murderer. However, the Jackal makes it to Paris just in time, and avoids hotels by going to a bathhouse, where he allows himself to be picked up by a man and taken to the man's flat. At a meeting with the assembled cabinet, Lebel plays the tape of a phone call made from the house of one of the cabinet members. The cabinet hears St. Clair's mistress passing along information about the manhunt to her OAS contact. St. Clair acknowledges that the call was made from his house and leaves in disgrace. Another cabinet member asks Lebel how he knew which phone to tap, to which he replies that he did not, so he tapped them all. Lebel realises that the Jackal will most likely attempt to shoot de Gaulle in three days, when the president will make several appearances for Liberation Day. Meanwhile, the Jackal kills the man who picked him up at the bathhouse after a television news flash reveals him to be wanted for murder. On Liberation Day, the Jackal, disguised as an elderly veteran amputee, shows his forged papers and is allowed through to enter the apartment building he had cased earlier. He takes up a position at the window of the upper apartment. De Gaulle enters the square to present medals to veterans of the Resistance. Lebel meets the policeman who met the disguised Jackal and becomes alarmed. As de Gaulle presents the first medal, the Jackal shoots but the bullet misses him because at that moment the president leans over to kiss the recipient on the cheek. Lebel and the policeman burst in to the room, the Jackal turns and shoots the policeman, Lebel uses the policeman's submachine gun to kill the Jackal as he tries to re-load his rifle. Back in Britain, the real — and completely unrelated to the case — Charles Calthrop  walks in on the police in his flat. As the Jackal's coffin is lowered into a grave, the authorities wonder, "But if the Jackal wasn't Calthrop, then who the hell was he?"After a frustrating day of hunting that has left the group empty-handed the hunting party comes to a river. Another band of hunters appears on the other side, and stares them down. Suddenly a gun goes off, and Zeke retaliates by shooting and killing one of the men on the other riverbank. After an exchange of gunfire, Rex and his friends win the skirmish, driving the other group off. Deciding to keep the incident a secret from the police, they round up a posse of friends and pursue the other hunters through the woods in a bloody mini-war that only Lou questions.The story opens in Europe days after VE Day. General Patton , orders that gold reserves held by the former Reichsbank be transported to Frankfurt. But before the shipment arrives in the city the train is robbed and its US Army MP guards are killed in a tunnel using poisoned gas. It's then revealed that a group of corrupt American officers, led by a colonel , are behind the crime. The investigation, started by Patton, initially leads to OSS Major Joe DeLuca . It seems the robbers used his plan from one of his wartime operations to steal the gold. This prompts DeLuca to start his own investigation. His first stop is to see his old wartime commander, Colonel Mike McCauley , who is now living in a requisitioned German Castle. Meanwhile, as the investigation gets closer, the corrupt American officers hire Webber, a professional assassin,  to kill Patton in the hope of halting the inquiry. Soon DeLuca meets Mara, a former girlfriend , who can help him find the culprits. But before they can do that they find out that Webber is on their trail and also planning to kill Patton. The pair now have to race against time across war-ravaged Europe to save the general and catch the villainous officers.Hannie Caulder  is a frontier wife whose husband is murdered by the Clemens brothers, a trio of rather inept outlaw brothers . After a disastrous bank raid, the Clemens men rape Caulder, burn down her house, and leave her for dead. They go on a crime spree, while Caulder recruits professional bounty hunter Thomas Price  to help her seek revenge by training her to use a gun.In the summer of 1946, Alec Ramsay  is traveling aboard the steamer Drake off the coast of North Africa, when he sees a wild black stallion being heavily restrained by ropes leading to his halter and forced into a makeshift stable on the ship. Captivated by the sight of the animal, he later returns and feeds it some sugar cubes, but is caught by the supposed owner, who shoves him away, telling him in Arabic to stay away from Shetan . Later, in their stateroom, Alec's father shows him the objects he won in a card game. He gives him a pocket knife and a small statue of Bucephalus, Alexander the Great's horse, from the loot and tells him the story of how Alexander became Bucephalus' master. Later that night, he is thrown from his bunk by the violent rocking of the ship. Emerging on deck, he finds that it has caught fire and is sinking. In the chaos, he sees the black stallion trapped and manages to free him with his knife. It then jumps overboard into the sea. Alec himself is thrown overboard. Trying to stay afloat in the water, he swims toward the horse and manages to grab hold of its restraints just as the ship explodes. Alec awakens alone on the shore of an uninhabited island. At first he is sad and frightened. Exploring, he comes upon the horse, trapped again by his ropes which have become caught in some rocks. Once more he manages to free it, but it runs away. He discovers means to survive by catching fish and gathering seaweed. One morning he awakens to find himself eye to eye with an angry cobra. He is paralyzed with fear. Suddenly the horse appears and tramples it, saving his life. It then runs off again. Alec decides to try to get closer to the horse. He offers him some seaweed. It struggles with his distrust of humans, but the act of taking the food from the boy's hand seals the bond between them. They play together, running and swimming. Finally he mounts him, and after several attempts to stay on, he rides him and the two gallop together over the island, united as one. One day a Portuguese fishing ship arrives. Several men row a small boat to the island, and Alec calls out to them. They try to take him forcibly off the island without the horse. But it swims out into the ocean and follows them, and so both of them are taken onto the ship and rescued. Back home in America, Alec is given a hero's welcome. He keeps the horse, which he has named The Black, in his backyard, but one morning he runs out the gate which a garbage man has left open. Spooked by the traffic in the street, he flees through the town. Alec gives chase but finally loses track of him. The next day, he meets an elderly horse owner named Snoe  who tells him where The Black is. He finds him in the barn of Henry Dailey , a retired jockey. He vigorously asserts his ownership of him, but Henry attempts to claim him himself, having spent all night trying to catch him. But when he sees the bond between the two, he realizes that he really does belong to Alec. Eating breakfast in Henry's kitchen, Alec looks out the window to where The Black is standing and realizes that he is at home on the farm. Henry offers Alec the use of a stall in which to keep him. Later Alec wonders how fast The Black might be, and he and Henry decide to train him for the racetrack. Henry teaches Alec to be a jockey. The Black surprises him with his speed. He conceives a plan to get him into a race involving the country's two current champions. He sets up a secret demonstration at night for a reporter to witness his speed, keeping the identity of him and Alec secret. The news about the mystery horse has spread, and he is allowed to enter the race. Alec's mother  at first refuses to let him ride in it but then relents, seeing how important it is to him. The race is the most anticipated horse racing event of the year. Heading for the starting gate alongside the two champions, The Black gets into a fight with one of his opponents, sustaining a wound to his leg. Alec does not see it until he is in the gate. As he begins to dismount, the bell rings and the horses take off. He desperately tries to stay on The Black and stop him, but he keeps running. When Alec regains his balance, The Black is far behind his opponents. But he encourages him to run as fast as he can, and they are soon back in the race. As they head for the finish, he thinks back to the two of them galloping along the island's sandy beach, and The Black overtakes the other horses and wins by two lengths. Later, a veterinarian assures Alec that the horse will recover from his injury. The film ends with Alec holding the small statue of Bucephalus while The Black inspects it with curiosity.The film centers around the members of a North Bronx youth gang, the Wanderers, and their fights with other gangs, and as well as gang rivalry, it deals  with issues such as racial tensions, sex, growing up, loyalty, the good and bad points of machismo and brotherhood, and the reflection of youth rebellion in the music of the era. The film's two main protagonists are Richie Gennaro , leader of the Wanderers, who has to deal with the imminent responsibilities of marriage, fatherhood, and joining his mobster father-in-law's family business; and Joey Capra ([[John Friedrich , who has a violent streak, artistic aspirations, and an unhappy home life .At an archaeological dig in Northern Iraq, archaeologist Father Lankester Merrin  visits a site where a silver Roman Catholic medallion along with a small stone amulet resembling a grimacing, bestial creature are found buried together. Meanwhile, Father Damien Karras ([[Jason Miller , a young priest at Georgetown University in Washington, DC, begins to doubt his faith while dealing with his mother's illness. A friend, Father Joe Dyer , tries to advise and console him. While making a film near her temporary residence in Georgetown, actress Chris MacNeil  notices dramatic and dangerous changes in the behavior of her 12-year-old daughter, Regan . Chris initially believes Regan's changes are related to puberty; however, doctors suspect a lesion on her temporal lobe. Regan endures a series of unpleasant medical tests. When X-rays show nothing out of the ordinary, a doctor advises that Regan be taken to a psychiatrist, whom she assaults. Paranormal occurrences continue, including a violently shaking bed, strange noises, and unexplained movements. A film director, Burke Dennings , visiting the MacNeil home, dies violently, found at the bottom of steps that run the full length of the house. Lieutenant Kinderman  investigates, and informs Karras that Dennings' head was found completely twisted around his shoulders. He also speaks with Chris and promises to return when Regan is feeling better. Just after Kinderman leaves, Chris is brutally attacked by her daughter, leaving her with facial bruises. When all medical explanations are exhausted, doctors recommend an exorcism. In desperation, Chris consults Karras, who is both a priest and a psychiatrist. During a period in which Karras observes Regan, she constantly refers to herself as the Devil. Karras initially believes her to be merely suffering from psychosis, until he records her speaking in a strange language which turns out to be English spoken backwards, and he is later shown Regan's abdomen where the words "help me" rise in relief in the form of Regan's handwriting. Despite his doubts, Karras decides to request permission from the Church to conduct an exorcism. Merrin, an experienced exorcist, is summoned to Georgetown to perform the exorcism, with Karras assisting. He and Karras try to drive the spirit from Regan. The demon threatens and taunts both priests, both physically and verbally . Merrin requests that he and Karras take a break, whereby he administers to himself the viaticum, a sign of his impending doom at the hands of the demon. Merrin excuses the younger priest and begins the exorcism, once more on his own. Karras returns to find Merrin has suffered a fatal heart attack. He attempts to perform CPR to no avail, but Regan is proud of it. Karras strikes and chokes her, challenging the demon to leave Regan and enter him. The demon does so, whereupon the priest regains enough control and throws himself through Regan's bedroom window and falls down the steps outside. At the bottom, a devastated Father Dyer administers last rites as Karras dies. Regan is restored to health and does not appear to remember her ordeal. Chris and Regan leave Georgetown and their trauma behind. They return Karras' silver medallion to Dyer, who takes one final look down the steps behind the house and departs.Car thief Dick Kanipsia gets a parole from a penitentiary. He intends to go straight, but first he goes directly to see an old friend, Harry Moss, only to be shocked to see Harry get shot. Harry's dying words tell Dick to go find Barry Fenaka, a guy who supposedly knows where to find a stash of stolen cash that Harry has hidden. Dick picks up a hitch-hiker along the way, Kitty Kopetzky, who starts out as a friendly free spirit, then turns into a nut case who robs a diner where she and Dick go to eat. Fenaka turns out to be a small-time bandleader. He and his wife take Dick and Kitty along as passengers in their recreational vehicle on their way to retrieve Harry's money. But a mysterious black van is following them every foot of the way, resulting in a big surprise for all concerned.A big-city mayor, Frank Skeffington, runs a powerful political machine as he seeks a fourth term, but his age, health and unhappy adversaries all stand in his way.Billy Jack is a "half-breed" American Cherokee Indian, a Green Beret Vietnam War veteran, and a hapkido master. The character made his début in The Born Losers , a "biker film" about a motorcycle gang terrorizing a California town. Billy Jack rises to the occasion to defeat the gang by defending a college student who has evidence against them for gang rapes. This changes with the second film, Billy Jack, in which the hero must defend the hippie-themed Freedom School and its students from townspeople who do not understand or like the counterculture students. The school is organized by Jean Roberts . In one scene, a group of Indian children from the school go into town for ice cream and are refused service and then abused and humiliated by Bernard Posner and his gang. This prompts a violent outburst by Billy. Later, Billy's girlfriend Jean is raped and one of the Indian students is murdered by Bernard , the corrupt son of the county's most successful  businessman . Billy confronts Bernard and sustains a gunshot wound before killing him with a hand strike to the throat. After a climactic shootout with the police, and much pleading from Jean, he surrenders to the authorities and is arrested. As he is being driven away, a large crowd of supporters raise their fists into the air as a show of defiance and support. The plot continues in the sequel, The Trial of Billy Jack.1940 - Operation Dynamo has just taken place. From the newly conquered French coastline, a Wehrmacht colonel looks out over the English Channel with powerful binoculars. Surveying the white cliffs of Dover, he spies Godfrey emerging from a lavatory. Godfrey joins the rest of his platoon, who are defiantly waving the Union Flag. The colonel fumes contemptuously, "How can the stupid British ever hope to win?!" One morning, George Mainwaring, the manager of the Walmington-on-Sea branch of Martins Bank, and his chief clerk, Arthur Wilson, listen to Anthony Eden making a radio broadcast about forming the Local Defence Volunteers.The actual talk was given in the evening, when most people would be listening to their radios. At the local police station chaos ensues because there is nobody to organise the enrolment of the men. Characteristically, Mainwaring takes charge and after commandeering the local church hall he registers the assembled volunteers. The local platoon is eventually formed with Mainwaring in command as Captain, Wilson as his Sergeant and Jack Jones as the Lance-Corporal. With no weapons or training the platoon is initially forced to improvise using home made devices invented by Jones. These invariably backfire or malfunction with disastrous consequences. The chaos includes an anti-aircraft rocket launcher blowing up a farmers' barn and a submarine made from a cast iron bathtub rolling into the river with Private Joe Walker still inside. The platoon secure uniforms and, eventually, weapons. Following the evacuation from Dunkirk, the LDV is renamed the "Home Guard". The platoon is ordered to take part in a war games/training weekend, but after Lance-Corporal Jones' newly gas-converted van breaks down they are towed by a steam roller. Out of control, the roller destroys the platoon's tents, as well as other equipment, angering Major-General Fullard who is in charge of the weekend exercises. After a night sleeping without tents the platoon oversleep despite being detailed to hold a pontoon bridge during the day's exercise. The bridge has been sabotaged by the Royal Marines and the results are comically chaotic. Captain Mainwaring is summoned by the Major-General and told that due to the platoon's poor showing he will recommend Mainwaring be replaced. While the platoon are walking back to Walmington, a Luftwaffe reconnaissance aircraft is shot down and its three-man crew parachute to safety. They enter Walmington church hall, where a meeting is taking place to raise money to fund a Spitfire. They hold all present as hostages, including (the mayor and vicar, and demand a boat back to France. Mainwaring and his men reach home and discover what has happened. By this point the police and the military have begun to arrive. The home guard platoon infiltrate the building though the church crypt. Dressed in choir surplices, they enter the church hall singing All Things Bright and Beautiful, with their own extemporised second verse. Mainwaring takes a revolver concealed under a collection plate and confronts the Luftwaffe leader, who aims his Luger at him. Both officers they will shoot at the count of three. The platoon draws their rifles from beneath their robes. The German intruders reluctantly surrender. Mainwaring and his men become the pride of the town. In the final scenes,Mainwaring and the Home Guard look towards France from the cliffs. The weather has changed for the worse and it is unlikely that Hitler will ever invade.In 1854, Edward Pierce, on the outside a charismatic and well-established member of London's high society, but in secret an opportunistic and cynical master thief, makes plans to steal a shipment of gold being transported monthly from London to Folkestone to finance the Crimean War and replace it with lead bars to escape premature detection. But the bank has taken strict precautions, including locking the gold in two heavy Chubb safes, each of which has two locks, thus requiring a total of four keys to open. When a first test robbery  goes awry, Pierce recruits his old acquaintance Robert Agar, a pickpocket and screwsman, as an accomplice. Pierce's mistress Miriam, a beautiful actress, and his cab driver Barlow also join in on the plot, and the guard to the safe car, Burgess, is also bribed into participation. To ensure the success of his plan, Pierce plans out the robbery in explicit detail, and even procures information on the security measures and locations of the keys. The executives of the bank who store the gold and arrange its transport, Mr. Henry Fowler and Mr. Edgar Trent, each possess a key; the other two are locked in a cabinet at the offices of the South Eastern Railway at the London Bridge train station. The keys are not to be stolen, but wax copies are to be made of them in order to hide the robbers' intentions. Pierce's first target is the key held by Edgar Trent. Through painstaking surveillance, Pierce learns that Trent is keen on ratting  and succeeds in becoming acquainted with the man. While visiting the Trent mansion, Pierce begins to court Elizabeth, Trent's daughter, and manages to learn from her that the key is hidden in the house's basement wine cellar. Pierce and Agar successfully break into Mr. Trent's home at night and make a wax copy of the key. Henry Fowler proves an easier target, as he likes to visit certain establishments for rather illicit purposes. Establishing Miriam as a high-level prostitute, Pierce hatches a plan to get the wax copy for Fowler's key. A highly reluctant Miriam takes Fowler to a suite in which he has to undress himself, including his key which he always wears around his neck for safety. Just before Miriam is forced to have sex with him, Pierce initiates the sounds of a  raid on the brothel, forcing Fowler to run for his life just after Agar manages to copy the key. What is now left are the two keys at the train station. Pierce and Agar first conduct a diversion using Agar's illegitimate son as a pickpocket, but the attempt fails. Therefore, Pierce decides to have the office burgled and the doors opened from within by the cat burglar Clean Willy, so that Agar can slip in at night and copy the keys while the station guard attends the restrooms. Since Clean Willy is currently incarcerated in Newgate Prison, Pierce, using an old alias called "John Simms", sends a message through Willy's former mistress and assists him in escaping from Newgate while the public is distracted by an execution. With Willy's help, the criminals succeed in making wax copies of the two keys at the railway station. With all four copies of the keys in Pierce's possession, Agar is able to perform a dry run of the theft to make sure that the copied keys work perfectly. Everything appears to be moving along smoothly until the gang finds itself seriously compromised: Clean Willy has turned informant to the police after an unlucky attempt at theft, and after informing them of his burglary in the station office  and under the pretense of asking for more money, he nearly has Pierce lured into a trap. Pierce manages to have Willy murdered, although his plans are now greatly compromised by law enforcement agents who correctly fear that a major robbery of the gold train is at hand. The police increases security by having the door locked from the outside until the train arrives at its destination, and no passengers may travel inside the safe car. Undeterred, Pierce manages to smuggle Agar into the baggage van inside a coffin and plans to get to the safe car across the wagon roofs while the train is on its way, but he and Miriam  encounter Fowler, who has decided to travel along in order to watch over the transport. After arranging for Miriam to travel with Fowler in the same compartment in order to divert his attention, Pierce climbs across the roof of the train during their journey and unlocks the door from the outside, thus allowing them to drop off the gold at the pre-arranged point. However, the soot from the engine's smoke stains Pierce's clothes, and so he is forced to borrow Agar's suit, which is much too small for him; the jacket splits across the back when he exits the train at Folkstone. The police quickly recognize him as a suspect and arrest him before he can rejoin his accomplices outside the station. Pierce is swiftly put on trial, where he is sentenced for heavy robbery. As he exits the courthouse, he receives the adoration of the poorer British masses, who consider him a folk hero for his daring act. In the midst of the hubbub, a disguised Miriam kisses him, thereby slipping him a key to his handcuffs; Agar is also present, disguised as the prison wagon driver. As Pierce is about to be shoved into the wagon, he fights free and escapes under the jubilation of the crowd and the chagrin of the officials.From the depths of the universe Earth can hear the radio signals of intelligent beings from a planet of the star system Shedar . A project is set up, proposed by the young inventor Vitya Sereda, to send a spaceship to reach the planet - but the flight will last for decades, so the crew of the spaceship "Dawn " , is to be recruited from teenage students. The project is all carefully thought out but student Fyodor Lobanov stows away aboard the starship and unwittingly causes it to transend the speed of light and so reaching its target 27 years ahead of schedule...1st Lieutenant Jake Tanner , an unorthodox Air Force officer, shares ICBM silo duty at an Air Force missile base in California with Major Eugene "Sam" Denton . When the United States detects incoming nuclear missiles, Tanner and Denton "turn the key" to launch part of the retaliatory strike, initiating Doomsday. After launching their entire arsenal of nuclear missiles, Tanner and Denton witness nuclear devastation rain down all around them. Two years later, the Earth has been tilted off its axis by World War III, radiation has mutated insect life, and the planet is constantly wracked by massive storms that cover the entire hemisphere. Military order at the base has broken down. Tanner has resigned his commission and Denton is considering going to Albany, New York to find the source of a lone radio transmission. Before they abandon the base, a rocket fuel explosion kills all but four men -- Denton, Tanner, former Airman Keegan  and Airman Tom Perry . They set out in two Air Force "Landmasters," giant 12-wheeled armored personnel carriers capable of climbing 60-degree inclines and operating in water. They must cross "Damnation Alley," considered "the path of least resistance" between intense radiation areas. On their journey, they lose one Landmaster in a storm , pick up two survivors, fight a band of crazed, savage shotgun-toting mountain men and encounter mutated "flesh stripping cockroaches" in the ruins of Salt Lake City, which eat Keegan alive, as well as a tidal wave set off by earth suddenly returning to its normal axis  before reaching their destination, a surprisingly intact Albany.Two NASCAR hopefuls, driver Larry Rayder  and his mechanic Deke Sommers , successfully execute a supermarket heist to finance their jump into big-time auto racing. They extort $150,000 in cash from a supermarket manager  by holding his wife and daughter hostage. In making their escape, they are confronted by Larry's one-night stand, Mary Coombs ([[Susan George . She coerces them to take her along for the ride in their souped-up 1966 Chevrolet Impala. The sheriff, Captain Franklin , obsessively pursues the trio in a dragnet, only to find his patrol cars unable to catch Larry, Mary and Deke after they ditch the Impala for a 1969 Dodge Charger R/T 440. Larry's vehicle soon enters an expansive walnut grove, wherein the trees provide significant cover from aerial tracking, and the many intersecting roads  making road blocks ineffective. The trio evades several Dodge Polara patrol cars, a specially-prepared high-performance police interceptor, and even Captain Franklin himself in a Bell JetRanger helicopter. Nearing the border and believing they've finally beaten the police, Larry and company meet their doom when they randomly collide with a freight train led by an Alco S1 locomotive.It concerns the lives of a group of misfits trying to find a happier life against the norms of society. Sutherland plays an ex-con with a passion for demolition derbies. He has wrecked almost every possible car, but violates his parole when confronted by a 1950 Studebaker. This embarrasses his brother, a politically ambitious district attorney . Fonda plays a prostitute with an off-on relationship with Sutherland's character. The gang tries to get an old Consolidated PBY Catalina plane flying, and much humor ensues. The film is notable for reprising the Fonda-Sutherland pairing, featured initially in the 1971 film Klute.The corpse of reporter Gregory Moore  is found in a Prague plaza and brought to the local morgue. But Moore is actually alive, trapped inside his dead body and desperately recalling how the mysterious disappearance of his beautiful girlfriend  led to a terrifying conspiracy of depravity. Can a reporter with no visible signs of life solve this perverse puzzle before he meets his ultimate deadline?A group of students pay their way through school by forming a pop band called Toomorrow; sonic vibrations from a special instrument called a "tonaliser" cause an extraterrestrial to abduct the group, and have them entertain the Alphoid population. According to the Internet Movie Database  this movie is based on the 1967 film The Gang.A professional driver  steals cars to drive as getaway vehicles for big-time robberies. Hot on the Driver's trail is the Detective , a conceited cop who refers to the Driver as "the cowboy who's never been caught" and is willing to go to any length to bring him down. The Detective becomes so obsessed that he sets up a bank job in order to entice, trap, and ultimately arrest, the Driver.The film is framed by the reminiscences of 121-year-old Jack Crabb , who recounts his colorful life story to a curious historian ([[William Hickey . Among other things, Crabb had been a captive of the Cheyenne, a gunslinger, an associate of Wild Bill Hickok , and a scout for General George Armstrong Custer . Having been adopted by the Cheyenne and reared in their culture, Crabb has perspective on both Caucasian and Native American life in the 19th century. Jack and his older sister Caroline  had survived the massacre of their parents' wagon train by the Pawnee. Found by a Cheyenne warrior, Jack and his sister are taken back to a Cheyenne village. Caroline manages to escape on horseback, but Jack is reared by good-hearted tribal leader Old Lodge Skins . Life among the Cheyenne proves to be idyllic, though Jack unwittingly makes an enemy of another boy, Younger Bear ; however, Younger Bear eventually owes his life to Jack, who saves him from a Pawnee warrior. Jack is given the name "Little Big Man" because he's short but very brave. When Jack is 16, he is recaptured by U.S. cavalry troopers and renounces his Native American upbringing in order to save himself. He is put in the care of Reverend Silas Pendrake  and his sexually frustrated wife, Louise , who tries to seduce Jack. Jack cannot accept the contradiction between Louise's piety and sexual appetite, and he eventually leaves the Pendrake household. Jack becomes the apprentice of the snake-oil salesman Merriweather . The two are tarred and feathered when their customers realize that Merriweather's products are fraudulent. One of the angry customers happens to be Jack's sister, Caroline. Once Caroline realizes that one of the men she helped to tar and feather was her brother, they reunite. She attempts to mold her brother into a gunslinger named the Soda Pop Kid . Jack meets Wild Bill Hickok at a saloon, and Hickok takes a liking to the young man. When Hickok is forced to kill a man in self-defense, Jack loses his taste for gunslinging and Caroline deserts him. Jack next becomes a partner in a general store and marries a Swedish woman named Olga . Unfortunately, Jack's business partner turns out to be a thieving scoundrel and Jack is forced to close the store. The famous cavalry officer George Armstrong Custer happens upon the scene and suggests the couple re-start their lives further west. Jack and Olga set out, but their stagecoach is ambushed by Cheyenne. Olga is abducted and Jack sets out in search for her. During his quest, he is reunited with Old Lodge Skins, who is overjoyed Jack has returned to the tribe. Younger Bear has become a contrary  and, having been humiliated by Jack years before, is still bitter. After a short stay with the tribe, Jack continues his search for Olga. He eventually becomes a "muleskinner" in Custer's 7th Cavalry, hoping to obtain information on Olga. He takes part in a battle against the Cheyenne, but when the 7th troopers begin killing women and children, Jack becomes enraged and turns on them. Nearby, Jack discovers a Cheyenne woman, Sunshine , giving birth. He saves Sunshine from the marauding troopers and returns with her to Old Lodge Skins's tribe. Sunshine becomes his wife and bears him a child. Jack again encounters Younger Bear, who has undergone another life change. No longer a contrary, Younger Bear is now the henpecked husband of the long-lost Olga, who is now living as a Cheyenne woman. Olga does not recognize Jack, who makes no attempt to remind her of their previous relationship. Sunshine asks Jack to take in her three widowed sisters as wives and to father children with them. He is reluctant at first, but finally agrees and has sex with all three; the first time all on the same night, exhausting Jack. One day during the winter season, Custer and the 7th Cavalry make a surprise attack on the Cheyenne camp. A now-blind and elderly Old Lodge Skins is saved by Jack, but Sunshine and their child are killed along with her sisters. Jack tries to infiltrate Custer's camp to exact revenge. At a crucial moment, with knife in hand, Jack loses his nerve, and is mocked by Custer for it. Disheartened, Jack becomes the town drunk in Deadwood, South Dakota. While in a drunken stupor, he is recognized by Wild Bill Hickok, who gives him money to clean up. When Jack returns to the bar, Hickok is shot and killed. With his last breath, Hickok expresses a dying wish involving a widow he was having an affair with. Jack goes to see the widow, a prostitute who turns out to be Louise Pendrake. Jack gives her the money that Hickok intended for her to use to start a new life. Jack soon becomes a trapper and hermit. His mind becomes unhinged after coming across an empty trap with a severed animal limb. Poised at the edge of a cliff, he prepares to commit suicide. Jack suddenly hears the faint chords of the traditional cavalry tune "Garryowen" echoing through a valley and spots Custer and his troops marching nearby. Jack decides to exact revenge. Custer, who remembers that Jack once tried to assassinate him, hires him as a scout, reasoning that anything Jack says will be a lie, thus serving as a perfect reverse barometer. Jack leads the troops into a trap at the Little Bighorn. Before the attack, Jack truthfully tells Custer of the overwhelming force of Native Americans hidden within the valley of the Little Bighorn. Custer does not believe him and leads the 7th Cavalry to its doom. During the frantic battle, Custer begins to rave insanely. Ignoring the closing circle of warriors, Custer points his pistol at Jack. Before he can pull the trigger, Custer is killed by Younger Bear, who removes the unconscious, wounded Jack from the battle by carrying him to Old Lodge Skins' tepee. Having thus discharged his life debt, Younger Bear tells Jack that, the next time they meet, he can kill him without becoming an evil person. Jack accompanies Old Lodge Skins to a nearby hill where the aged, weary leader decides to end his life. He offers his spirit to the Great Spirit, and lies down to wait for death. Instead, it begins to rain. Old Lodge Skins sighs and says, "Sometimes the magic works, and sometimes it doesn't". They return to his tepee to have dinner. Jack's narrative ends and he dismisses the historian, while thinking with sadness about the memories of a world which is no more.The film opens with the ending of its predecessor, Rocky, with Apollo Creed  successfully defending his world heavyweight title courtesy of a split decision. Both fighters are taken to the same hospital due to the extent of their injuries from the match, where Apollo challenges Rocky  to a rematch in front of press. Rocky declines and declares his retirement, his decision supported by his girlfriend, Adrian , and doctors, who reveal he will require surgery for a detached retina which could lead to permanent blindness. After Rocky is discharged from the hospital, he begins to enjoy the benefits of his life's changes resulting from the match: Rocky's new fame attracts him an agent who sees Rocky as a potential endorsement and sponsorship goldmine and his sudden wealth encourages him to propose to Adrian. She happily accepts and they marry in a small ceremony. Soon after, Rocky and Adrian happily learn that Adrian is pregnant with their first child. Meanwhile, fueled by hate mail he has started to receive, Apollo becomes obsessed with the idea that a rematch is the only way to prove that Rocky's performance was simply a fluke. Determined to rectify his boxing career's only blemish, Apollo ignores all pleas by his friends and family to move on to other potential opponents and demands his team do whatever necessary to goad Rocky out of retirement and into a rematch. Rocky at first seems unaffected by Apollo's smear campaign, but his inexperience with money causes him to run into financial problems. After largely unsuccessful attempts to find employment, Rocky visits Mickey Goldmill , his trainer, at his gym to talk about the possibility of returning to the ring. At first, Mickey refuses, worried about Rocky's health, but changes his mind after Apollo publicly insults Rocky on television. News of the rematch quickly spreads with Adrian hearing about it through the news. She confronts Rocky about it and reminds him of the risk to his eyesight. Rocky argues he knows nothing else so this is the only way he can provide. Adrian, angry at Rocky for breaking his promise, refuses to support him. Rocky and Mickey begin training, but it soon becomes apparent Rocky is lacking motivation. Adrian's brother, Paulie , confronts his sister about not supporting her husband, but she faints during the confrontation and is rushed to the hospital where she goes into labor. Despite being premature, the baby is healthy but Adrian falls into a coma. Rocky blames himself for what has happened and refuses to leave Adrian's bedside until she wakes up, and will not go to see his new baby until they can see it together. When Adrian comes out of her coma, she finds Rocky by her bedside and the couple are shown their new baby, a boy, which they name after Rocky. Adrian gives her blessing to the rematch which enables Rocky to refocus on his training and he quickly gets into shape for the fight. The night of the fight arrives and Apollo has made a public goal of beating Rocky in no more than two rounds to prove the first fight going the full 15 rounds was a fluke. Rocky is not able to mount much of an offensive effort through the first two rounds but manages to survive them disproving Apollo's theory that the first fight's result was a fluke. As before, the fight once again reaches the 15th round, by which point Apollo has built a lead on points that Rocky cannot possibly beat. However, Apollo's obsession with knocking Rocky out  leads him to trade blows with Rocky despite his lead. Rocky lands a devastating blow on Apollo that knocks the champ down, but an exhausted Rocky loses his balance and falls to the canvas as well. Rocky manages to stand up before the referee counts to ten, while Apollo is counted out. Rocky thus wins the fight by knockout and becomes the heavyweight champion of the world. In his post-fight announcement Rocky, who has won back the respect of his fans and his wife Adrian, humbly thanks Apollo.Pike , the right-hand man of cattle rancher Bob Morgan , is entrusted with a mission to deliver $86,000 across the border to the Morgan Ranch in Sonora, Mexico after his boss dies. Pike teams up with dishonest gambler Tyree  and are forced to trust each other while being pursued by various outlaws and gunmen trying to possess the money, including the ruthless bounty hunter Kiefer  and corrupt sheriff Kane ([[Barry Sullivan . Along the way the duo comes across a prostitute  in need of rescuing and Kashtok , a mute Indian scout skilled in martial arts who help them on their journey. After numerous gun battles and chase sequences, Pike and Tyree reach the end of the line at an abandoned mine, where they duke it out over the money, yet finally settle and work together after getting word of the approaching gunmen. They devise a plan to escape by using explosives to blow up the mine shaft behind them, killing all their pursuers except for Kiefer, who decides to forgo his bounty and let the men continue their quest to reach the ranch.Abner Procane hires Raymond St. Ives, a crime reporter and ex-policeman, to return five ledgers stolen from his safe. St. Ives becomes embroiled in the task and the deaths of those involved in the theft. The ledgers are eventually returned minus four pages, and St. Ives is drawn into robbery to try and right the situation.The farce is set in a gay bathhouse in Manhattan, where unsuspecting heterosexual Cleveland businessman Gaetano Proclo has taken refuge from his homicidal mobster brother-in-law, Carmine Vespucci. There Gaetano stumbles across an assortment of oddball characters, including a rabid chubby chaser, go-go boys, a squeaky-voiced detective, and Googie Gomez, a third-rate Puerto Rican entertainer with visions of Broadway glory who mistakes him for a famous producer and whom he mistakes for a man in drag. Further complications arise when Gaetano's wife Vivian tracks him down and jumps to all the wrong conclusions about his sexual preferences.A four man US fireteam on patrol seizes a passing young vietnamnese girl and continue to torture, rape and kill her. Only one soldier refuses to take part in it and reports this incident to his superior, who dismisses it as simple wartime incident. As a consequence for his report, the soldier has to fear for his life. Later, the perpetrators are convicted, although subsequent appeals reduce their sentences significantly. The plot takes place in a Bavarian forest and reenacts a real war crime that happened in the Vietnam war. The soldiers wear US uniforms, have authentic names but speak with a pronounced bavarian accent - a conscious directing decision known as Brechtian distancing effect.Old and retired Sergeant Nash Crawford , formerly of the Texas Rangers, enters a saloon where his former partner, Gentleman George Asque , plays poker with a man and beats him ten times in a row. The man calls George a cheater and prepares to draw his gun, but Nash saves his comrade by calling him "Wyatt," making the stranger mistakenly assume he is Wyatt Earp. The two exit the saloon. Nash gives George a telegram which says they should go to Waco because former partner The Baltimore Kid  is in trouble. It is signed "Friend." Jason Fitch  is getting married to Louise Murphy . George and Nash interrupt the ceremony to take Jason with them to Waco and they convince him by shouting the Ranger code "Brazos!" Jason promises Louise he will return and leaves with his friends. In Waco, they find out "Friend" was Amos Polk, a former outlaw, now a newspaper man. Polk takes them to the Baltimore Kid's grave. It's unclear why Polk called them, but he shows them the Kid's wallet, in which is a note Kid leaves to his comrades when he dies. The four go to the saloon, where they meet a drunk who looks very familiar to the Baltimore Kid. They take him to the newspaper office, where he claims to have been a Texas Ranger once. The group is now sure he is the Baltimore Kid. The Kid puts on some elegant clothes and gets a new gun. His gravestone is removed. The Kid becomes the Waco city marshal and the old Rangers his deputies. Now it's clear that the bandit who killed the previous marshal and his deputies is a fake. The gang of Sam Braham returns to Waco to kill the real Baltimore Kid. A gunfight in the streets of Waco results and the Rangers win against the outlaws, but the Kid is shot dead. Citizens of Waco bury the Kid again. The old Rangers leave, but, at the end of the town, the Baltimore Kid is waiting, very much alive. All of them go with Jason Fitch, who has to get married.The story revolves around the odd relationship between two vagabonds: Max Millan , a short-tempered ex-convict, and Francis Lionel "Lion" Delbuchi , a childlike ex-sailor. They meet on the road in California and agree to become partners in a business, once they reach Pittsburgh. Lion is on his way to Detroit to see the child he has never met and make amends with his wife Annie, to whom he has been sending all the money he made while at sea. Max agrees to make a detour on his way to Pittsburgh, where the bank that Max has been sending all his seed money is located. His plans are to open a car wash, with Lionel as a partner. While visiting Max's sister in Denver, the two's antics land them in a prison work-house for a month. Max blames Lion for being sent back to jail and shuns him. Lion is befriended, then assaulted by an inmate named Riley ([[Richard Lynch . Max proceeds to teach Riley a lesson, rekindling his friendship with Lion. The two have a profound effect on each other, with Lion becoming more of an adult and Max loosening up his high-strung aggression . When they do finally make it to Detroit, Max has to take care of Lion, who becomes catatonic after hearing the passing of his unborn child .{{plot}} In the Louisiana Bayou town of Marsh Island, two farmers discover the mauled, dead body of a local resident, an attractive young girl. Sheriff Aaron Whitaker  is called in. The victim's temperamental brother Lawrence Burrifors ([[Geoffrey Lewis  arrives at the crime scene and jumps to the conclusion that the girl's lover committed the murder, a man whose very name her brother does not know. The town's Dr. Drutan  examines the body and pronounces the girl died of a severe blow to the head caused by a human hand. The sheriff continues to investigate the crime and interviews people who knew the victim. Local residents have a variety of theories, including the belief she was killed by wild dogs. A posse soon forms to track down the wild dogs with little success. Burrifors continues to insist the killer to be his sister's mysterious lover while the sheriff, in turn, is suspicious of him. The girl's sick and dying father Hugh Burrifors , interviewed by the sheriff, warns him of the "Loug Garog". The sheriff does not understand the French term and local Cajun residents are unable to interpret it. The sheriff's investigation soon takes him to the plantation home of the wealthy Andrew Rodanthe  and his sister Louise . They are the last of a local family dynasty with a history stretching back over a century. Andrew, who the sheriff suspects had an affair with the victim, claims to have been suffering an attack of malaria the night the girl was killed. The sheriff, suspicious of the temperamental brother Lawrence after he assaults the town doctor , soon arrests him and puts him in jail. While there, the full moon rises again and Lawrence and the sheriff's deputy are killed in a vicious attack as the steel bars of the cell are torn from the wall. With the town's terrified residents turning into an angry mob and the sheriff now without assistance, Andrew Rodanthe volunteers to become deputy. Andrew and the sheriff return to Hugh Burrifor's house and discover the old man has created a voodoo potion that gives off a vapor meant to repel the "Loug Garog". Rodanthe inhales the potion and goes into what appears to be an epileptic seizure. He is taken to the hospital. While there, Andrew's sister Louise tells the sheriff she can speak French fluently and would like to talk to Hugh Burrifor about the unexplainable term "Loug Garog". While speaking with the old man, Louise solves the puzzle. "Loug Garog" is a mispronunciation of "Loup-Garou". Translated into English the term means "werewolf". The next scene shows Andrew turning into a werewolf, revealing him to be the elusive killer. Transformed into a werewolf, Andrew violently escapes the hospital and becomes the subject of a man-hunt. Louise talks to Sheriff Whitaker about werewolf folklore. She reveals a family secret that her grandfather used to suffer from unusual spells of sickness, implying he was also a werewolf and Andrew's curse was inherited. Louise returns to her plantation home and is alone when Andrew, still in his werewolf form, quietly enters the house. A frightened Louise attempts to corner the werewolf in a burning barn and eventually shoots the creature with what she assumes are blessed bullets. The sheriff arrives on the scene in time to see Andrew return to his human form before dying.The Man in the Planet  is seen moving levers in his home in space, while the head of Henry Spencer  is seen floating in the sky. A spermatozoon-like creature emerges from Spencer's mouth, floating into the void. In an industrial cityscape, Spencer walks home with his groceries. He is stopped outside his apartment by the Beautiful Girl Across the Hall , who informs him that his girlfriend, Mary&nbsp;X , has invited him to dinner with her family. Spencer leaves his groceries in his apartment, which is filled with piles of dirt and dead vegetation. That night, Spencer visits X's home, conversing awkwardly with her mother . At the dinner table, he is asked to carve a chicken that X's father  has "made"; the bird moves and writhes on the plate and gushes blood when cut. After dinner, Spencer is cornered by X's mother, who tries to kiss him. She tells him that X has had his child and that the two must marry. X, however, is not sure if what she bore is a child. The couple move into Spencer's one-room apartment and begin caring for the child—a swaddled bundle with an inhuman, snakelike face, resembling the spermatozoon creature seen earlier. The infant refuses all food, crying incessantly and intolerably. The sound drives X hysterical, and she leaves Spencer and the child. Spencer attempts to care for the child, and he learns that it struggles to breathe and has developed painful sores. Spencer begins experiencing visions, again seeing the Man in the Planet, as well as the Lady in the Radiator , who sings to him as she stomps upon miniature replicas of Spencer's child. After a sexual encounter with the Beautiful Girl Across the Hall, Spencer has another vision, seeing his own head fall off, revealing a stump underneath that resembles the child's face. Spencer's head falls from the sky, landing on a street and breaking open. A boy finds it, bringing it to a pencil factory to be turned into erasers. Spencer is then seen, in his normal form, in a billowing cloud of eraser shavings. Spencer tries to seek out the Beautiful Girl Across the Hall, but she has began taking other men home. Crushed, Spencer returns to his room, where the child is crying. He takes a pair of scissors and for the first time removes the child's swaddling. It is revealed that the child has no skin; the bandages held its internal organs together, and they spill apart after the rags are cut. The child gasps in pain, and Spencer stabs its organs with the scissors. The wounds gush a thick liquid, covering the child. The power in the room overloads, causing the lights to flicker; as they flick on and off the child grows to huge proportions. As the lights burn out completely, the child's head is replaced by the planet seen at the beginning. The side of the planet bursts apart, and inside, the Man in the Planet struggles his levers, which are now emitting sparks. Spencer is embraced warmly by the Lady in the Radiator, as both white light and white noise build to a crescendo before the screen turns black and silent.The film is episodic, depicting the two detectives teaming on several different cases, with varying degrees of success. The main focus of the movie centers on them trying to bust one main criminal, an LA crime king-pin named "Rizzo" . The film is extremely cynical, strongly implying that crime does pay ... and that the biggest criminals in society are corrupt politicians and businessmen who will never be punished for their crimes. The film ends with an unusual soundtrack flash-forward. While we see Gould attempting to arrest a powerful figure who will ultimately walk free, we also hear something which hasn't happened yet: Gould's character quitting the police force and applying for a civilian job.The story begins with two government agents — Matthew Johnson and Melvin Johnson — being captured by the Dragon Lady Stella Stevens. Cleopatra Jones then travels to Hong Kong to rescue the agents. Jones pairs up with Tanny  and ends up in the Dragon Lady’s casino, which in actuality, is the headquarters for her underground drug empire. Jones and Tanny use their combat skills to battle the Dragon Lady’s henchmen and rescues the agents.<ref nameBlaxploitation Films of the 1970s |isbnNovotny Lawrence |publisher2008}}When Dr. Watson  discovers that Sherlock Holmes  has become delusional as a result of his addiction to cocaine, he arranges for Holmes to journey to Vienna to be treated by none other than Sigmund Freud . However, during the course of his treatment, Holmes becomes embroiled in investigating a kidnapping case with international implications, as Freud uncovers a large personal secret suppressed in Holmes' subconscious.In the distant future, the war between the human race and the aliens known as the Gamilons has destroyed the Earth. Radioactive asteroids have devastated the planet making the its atmosphere uninhabitable. In an effort to assist the Earth, Queen Starsha of the planet Iscandar offers the Earth Forces a device that can completely neutralize the radiation. In order to get this device the space battleship Yamato is launched from the remains of its World War II ancestor on a 148,000 light-year journey. The crew of the Space Battleship Yamato has only one Earth year to travel to Iscandar and back, or the human race will become extinct.{{cite web}}The preceding film, Beneath the Planet of the Apes, ends with the apes' future Earth and everything on it being destroyed by a nuclear weapon. Escape from the Planet of the Apes begins by establishing that three apes—Cornelius, Zira, and Dr. Milo —escaped the Earth's destruction by salvaging and repairing the astronaut Taylor's spaceship  and piloting it through the shock wave of Earth's destruction, sending the ship through a time warp. The salvage, repair and launch all happen within the brief period of the final act of the previous film. The apes arrive on Earth in 1973, splashing down on the Pacific coast. They are transported to a secluded area of the Los Angeles Zoo, under the observation of two scientists, Stephanie Branton  and Lewis Dixon . The apes' power of speech is revealed when Zira's impatience gets the better of her during an experiment. Soon after this, Milo is killed by a gorilla who becomes agitated by an argument amongst the three chimpanzees. Meanwhile, a Presidential Commission has been formed to investigate the return of Taylor's spaceship and how the apes, which they already are aware are atypically intelligent, came to be aboard it. The apes are brought before the Presidential Commission, where they publicly reveal their ability to speak, and are welcomed as guests. Cornelius and Zira secretly tell Stephanie and Lewis that they knew about Taylor, how humans are treated in the ape dominated future, about the Earth's eventual destruction. Stephanie and Lewis are shocked, but they handle it and tell Cornelius and Zira to keep this quiet until they find the right people to talk to. The apes become celebrities, being lavished with presents and media attention. They come to the attention of the President's Science Advisor Dr. Otto Hasslein , who discovers Zira is pregnant and fears for the future of the human race. Determined to force the issue, he gets her drunk on champagne . The resulting interrogation enables him to convince the Commission that Cornelius and Zira must be subjected to more rigorous questioning. Both are questioned using various means of interrogation; during this time, one of Hasslein's assistants refers to the apes as "monkeys," stirring Cornelius's anger. Hasslein defuses it, saying they simply want to know how apes rose in dominance over men. Cornelius reveals that the human race will eventually meet its downfall and be dominated by simians, which will later lead to Earth's destruction. However, there are still suspicions about how humans are treated by the future apes rather than the Earth's destruction. Suspicion had already been aroused by Zira letting slip, during the original hearing, that she had dissected humans in the course of her work. Hasslein orders Lewis to administer a truth serum to her, while Cornelius is taken to confinement quarters. Lewis warns Zira that the serum will have the same effect as the champagne Hasslein convinced her to drink earlier. As a result of the serum, Hasslein learns for himself that Zira examined and operated on humans in the future. Zira is taken to join Cornelius in confinement while Hasslein takes his findings to the U.S. President ([[William Windom . An orderly bringing food refers to the unborn child as a "little monkey;" Cornelius has heard enough of the epithet and knocks the tray out of the orderly's hands, thinking he has only knocked the orderly unconscious; he is stunned later to overhear that the boy died. Hasslein uses it as an illustration of the future danger the apes present and calls for the apes' execution. The president reluctantly orders that the unborn child's birth be terminated and that both be sterilized. Running for their lives, Cornelius and Zira  find shelter in a circus run by Señor Armando , where an ape named Heloise has just had a baby. There Zira gives birth to a son, whom she names Milo. Hasslein, knowing that Zira's giving birth was imminent, orders a search of all circuses and zoos. As a result, Armando must send the apes away; Lewis gives Cornelius a pistol to use as a last resort. Hasslein tracks the apes down to an abandoned ship, and finds Zira resting with her infant. Hasslein shoots Zira after she refuses to hand over her infant and then proceeds to fire several shots into the infant; he is immediately shot to death by Cornelius, and falls overboard. After Cornelius kills Hasslein, he is shot by an unseen Marine Corps sniper and, as Stephanie and Lewis watch, falls to the deck of the ship. Zira tosses her dead baby over the side of the ship before crawling to lie with her husband. The survivors are unaware of the real fate of the infant ape: Cornelius, Zira, and Armando switched babies with the common ape Heloise before their escape. Armando now watches over the intelligent infant Milo. The film ends with the baby Milo sitting in a cage, plaintively speaking the words "Mama? Mama?"Marine scientists prepare to leave their underwater Sealab after an extended stay performing oceanographic research. An underwater earthquake interrupts their plans. Dr. Andrews  enlists experimental sub captain Adrien Blake  to survey the damage and rescue the oceanauts. Taking Chief Diver "Mack" MacKay  and Dr. Leah Jansen , fiancée of one of the scientists, in the sub, Blake finds the lab has been ripped from its moorings and tumbled down an unexplored, deep ocean trench, presumably intact. With time running out , the team descends into the unexplored trench, and finds an incredible ecosystem populated with monstrously over-sized fish. After surviving encounters with unfriendly denizens, they find the lab partially intact, the surviving scientists breathing from scuba tanks, and fending off giant, hungry eels. All but one of the scientists are rescued, and the submarine returns to the surface.Tommy Gibbs  is an African-American who grew up in Harlem, New York City. As a kid, he was brutally assaulted by a racist white cop. The incident led him to a life of crime. As an adult, he joins New York mafia and becomes the head of a black crime syndicate in Harlem. He wages a gang war with the Italian mobsters of New York City and begins to establish a criminal empire. Later on, he meets and falls in love with a beautiful black woman named Helen  and marries her.{{plot}} Johnny Baxter ([[Dean Jones  is at his corporate middle class job when a probate attorney ([[David White  tells him that his recently deceased uncle, Jacob Barnesworth, has left him sole ownership of the lucrative Grand Imperial Hotel in the fictional town of Silver Hill, Colorado. A letter written by Barnesworth claims that the hotel brings in more than $14,000 per month. Baxter, clearly chafing under the dehumanizing conditions at the office, views this as a golden opportunity. Baxter quits his job in a grand spectacle and moves his family to Colorado to take proprietorship of the hotel. The family finds it to be an immense but ramshackle building with no heat and a colorful old codger, Jesse McCord , living in the shed. Initially, Baxter is inclined to turn McCord out for what appeared to be breaking and entering until he is pressured by his family—mainly his children—to allow McCord to stay. McCord offers his services as a bartender, but Baxter assigns him the job of bellhop, which McCord takes with a characteristically easygoing nature. Some time later, Baxter and his wife are walking on the hills behind the hotel, trying to decide what to do about the hotel. With no real attractions nearby, they are unsure what, if anything, they could do with the property until a chance meeting with Wally, a local boy employed by the gas station, out for a ride on his snowmobile. He apologizes for making tracks in Baxter's snow and is about to leave when Baxter stops him to ask what he meant. Wally explains that the Grand Imperial sits on a huge amount of property, "about as far as you can see," as he puts it. Baxter realizes that the hilly terrain is exactly the attraction the hotel needs; they can turn the hill adjacent to the hotel into a ski lodge. Baxter attempts to secure funding for his plans. Local banker Martin Ridgeway  expresses great interest in Baxter's daring idea, but also offers to buy the lodge in order to convert it into a boys' school in honor of the deceased uncle. Baxter declines. Ridgeway, in turn, declines to give Baxter a loan, citing him as a bad collateral risk and specifically pointing out that Baxter has no experience in hotel or restaurant management, likely making his business venture a failure. All during this exchange, Ridgeway's secretary appears quite agitated, but does not speak up. Baxter leaves the bank without a loan, but determined to find one. Baxter searches for funding elsewhere and finds a friendly banker in the next town named Mr. Wainwright ([[George Kirkpatrick  who is interested in Baxter's venture. Wainwright agrees to meet with Baxter at a ski lodge — Baxter, not willing to make the same mistake as he did with Ridgeway by admitting he knows nothing about hotels or skiing, claims to be an avid skier. Wainwright, taking Baxter at his word, takes him to a black diamond run called "Nightmare Alley." Faking an injury, Baxter convinces Wainwright to start without him. However, after knocking down a ski rack, Baxter is shoved by an irate skier, sending him down the run anyway. After quite a few close calls, not to mention downing more than a few other skiers, Baxter ends up crashing into a tree. The sensational story is picked up by the local press, which gives the chaos and injuries caused by Baxter's run a fair amount of coverage. While he is recovering, Martin Ridgeway gives Baxter a check for $3,000, taking feigned pity on him. Baxter starts making a list of repairs for the lodge. Meanwhile, local bumpkin Wally Perkins  works with Jesse to repair the hot water heater. The water heater explodes, tearing a hole in the kitchen wall. Ridgeway's check covers the repair, but leaves nothing for the ski lift Baxter had in mind. Jesse comes to the rescue by pulling an old donkey engine out of mothballs, tying a rope around it, and using it as a makeshift ski lift. The restored hotel opens to little fanfare, receiving few customers for several days. When Wally dynamites a tree stump from the ground, the explosion sets off an avalanche, blocking a passing train carrying several hundred skiers. The Baxters quickly shuttle the skiers to their resort. All goes well until Wally commences ski training classes. Having never taught skiing before, Wally loses his balance and skis down a steep mountain, dangling over a ledge while clinging to a pine tree. Using the donkey engine and a rope to lower John Baxter down the mountain to rescue Wally, Jesse accidentally jostles a loose piece of lit firewood onto one of the ropes anchoring the engine in place. Baxter rescues Wally, who suffers a broken arm. The burning rope tears, setting the donkey engine free. It slides down the mountain with Baxter in tow, still roped to the machine after having rescued Wally. The engine plows through the hotel. All of the guests check out, leaving the Baxters out of money once again. John Baxter sheepishly goes back to Ridgeway, asking for an extension on his loan, which Ridgeway flatly refuses. Baxter notices a sign for the Silver Hills Snowmobile Race, with $5,000 prize, a prize that has been won by Ridgeway for the last several runs of the race. Though Baxter has never used a snowmobile, he assumes Wally can drive his slapdash snowmobile. Unfortunately, Wally's broken arm from his skiing accident prevents his involvement. Baxter decides to drive the snowmobile himself, with Jesse as his partner. Baxter's wife, furious that he would risk his own safety and health and certain that the lodge has become an obsession that has eclipsed his duties to his family, threatens to leave. The day of the race, 75-year-old Jesse has second thoughts about partaking in the race aboard Wally's decrepit snowmobile . Baxter reveals that his wife has indeed left with the children, probably for Denver. After a rocky start, Baxter and McCord actually end up passing much of the pack, but a series of unfortunate turns and one unexpected shortcut ends up breaking one of the snowmobile's skis. Heading into town both in the lead and under full power due to a broken throttle, Baxter plows into a snowbank, breaking the other ski. Ridgeway makes the same mistake, and the two end up on the final stretch only seconds apart. Though they come close, Baxter and McCord narrowly miss the finish line. Ridgeway wins first place, and Baxter ends up riding the snowmobile for hours as it will not shut off or stop. As he returns to town well after dark, his snowmobile towed by a horse, he finds his wife waiting for him. The next day, Ridgeway brings the deed transfer papers to the lodge for Baxter to sign. An impassioned plea by Baxter for an extension is again denied, and when Baxter presses the issue, Ridgeway threatens to begin the foreclosure process, but offers to buy the resort from Baxter for practically nothing, again mentioning his Jacob Barnesworth School for Boys plan. Ridgeway's secretary Miss Wigginton  happens to be present during this exchange, and blows her stack in front of Ridgeway, telling everyone the truth: the property includes several hundred acres of pine timberland originally donated to the local Indian tribes by Barnesworth for as long as the tribe inhabited the land. As the tribe has moved away or died out, the land reverts to the estate. Ridgeway wants to buy the resort in order to log the highly valuable timber located on the property. Jesse adds that the land the town was built on was granted by Jacob Farnsworth on the condition that several buildings be erected, including two hospitals  and library. Baxter's son notes that he has not seen a library, and, in genuine confusion, asks why the land has not reverted to Baxter. Wigginton realizes that he is absolutely right, and that Silver Hill is in violation of the grant, meaning that the entire town is built on land now owned by Baxter — including Ridgeway's bank. Ridgeway, now finding himself on the back foot, finds himself being pressed by Baxter for an extension on the loan, which is quickly granted. Baxter pushes his advantage, and Ridgeway quickly agrees to loan Baxter the money necessary to not only repair but greatly expand the resort.Howard Beale , the longtime anchor of the UBS Evening News, learns from news division president Max Schumacher  that he has just two more weeks on the air because of declining ratings. The two old friends get roaring drunk and lament the state of their industry. The following night, Beale announces on live television that he will commit suicide on next Tuesday's broadcast.Because Chayefsky started writing the screenplay during the same month that newscaster Christine Chubbuck committed on-air suicide, some, including Matthew C. Ehrlich in Journalism in the Movies , have speculated  that the scene was inspired by Chubbuck's manner of death. UBS fires him after this incident, but Schumacher intervenes so that Beale can have a dignified farewell. Beale promises he will apologize for his outburst, but once on the air, he launches back into a rant claiming that life is "bullshit". Beale's outburst causes the newscast's ratings to spike, and much to Schumacher's dismay, the upper echelons of UBS decide to exploit Beale's antics rather than pull him off the air. In one impassioned diatribe, Beale galvanizes the nation, persuading his viewers to shout out of their windows "I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!".  Diana Christensen  heads the network's programming department; seeking just one hit show, she cuts a deal with a band of radical terrorists  for a new docudrama series called the Mao-Tse Tung Hour for the upcoming fall season. When Beale's ratings seem to have topped out, Christensen approaches Schumacher and offers to help him "develop" the news show. He says no to the professional offer, but not to the personal one, and the two begin an affair. When Schumacher decides to end the "Howard as Angry Man" format, Christensen convinces her boss, Frank Hackett , to slot the evening news show under the entertainment division so that she can develop it. Hackett agrees, bullies the UBS executives to consent, and fires Schumacher at the same time. Soon after, Beale is hosting a new program called The Howard Beale Show, top-billed as "the mad prophet of the airwaves". Ultimately, the show becomes the most highly rated program on television, and Beale finds new celebrity preaching his angry message in front of a live studio audience that, on cue, chants Beale's signature catchphrase en masse: "We're as mad as hell, and we're not going to take this anymore." At first, Max's and Diana's romance withers as the show flourishes, but in the flush of high ratings, the two ultimately find their ways back together, and Schumacher leaves his wife of over 25 years for Christensen. But Christensen's fanatical devotion to her job and emotional emptiness ultimately drive Max back to his wife, and he warns his former lover that she will self-destruct at the pace she is running with her career. "You are television incarnate, Diana," he tells her, "indifferent to suffering, insensitive to joy. All of life is reduced to the common rubble of banality." When Beale discovers that CCA, the conglomerate that owns UBS, will be bought out by an even larger Saudi Arabian conglomerate, he launches an on-screen tirade against the deal, encouraging viewers to send telegrams to the White House telling them, "I want the CCA deal stopped now!" This throws the top network brass into a state of panic because the company's debt load has made merger essential for survival. Hackett takes Beale to meet with CCA chairman Arthur Jensen , who explicates his own "corporate cosmology" to the attentive Beale. Jensen delivers a tirade of his own in an "appropriate setting," the dramatically darkened CCA boardroom, that suggests to the docile Beale that Jensen may himself be some higher power — describing the interrelatedness of the participants in the international economy, and the illusory nature of nationality distinctions. Jensen persuades Beale to abandon the populist messages and preach his new "evangel". But television audiences find his new sermons on the dehumanization of society to be depressing, and ratings begin to slide, yet Jensen will not allow UBS executives to fire Beale. Seeing its two-for-the-price-of-one value — solving the Beale problem plus sparking a boost in season-opener ratings — Christensen, Hackett, and the other executives decide to hire the Ecumenical Liberation Army to assassinate Beale on the air; the assassination succeeds, putting an end to The Howard Beale Show and kicking off a second season of The Mao-Tse Tung Hour. The film ends with the narrator stating: {{bquote}}Magician Montag the Magnificent delivers hectoring speeches about the nature of reality to his audience and then performs mutilation tricks on female "volunteers". The women appear unharmed immediately afterward but later collapse, dead, in public or at home—mutilated in the same grisly fashion suggested by Montag's stage tricks . Audience member Sherry Carson, a local TV talk show hostess, and her boyfriend Jack begin to suspect that Montag is somehow involved in the murders. He and fellow reporter Greg attempt to research the case but are unable to come up with any solid evidence. Montag agrees to appear on Sherry's show to perform a fire trick; when the cameras roll, he hypnotizes not only everyone in the studio, but also the viewing audience at home. With a wave of his hand, Montag starts a blaze and is guiding Sherry and two plainclothes cops toward it when Jack intervenes and pushes Montag into the fire instead. Screaming, the magician dies. Back at home, Sherry and Jack have a drink as they discuss their strange experience. Suddenly, Jack laughs and begins peeling his own skin from his face to reveal that he is actually Montag. "What makes you think you know what reality is?" he asks Sherry, before disemboweling her with his bare hands. However, still alive, she tells the baffled Montag that none of what has happened was real, and that even he is part of her illusion. "You are no longer even here", she informs Montag. "You'll have to start your little charade all over again." "But I...I am Montag!" the magician stammers helplessly. Then he is back onstage, dazed, reciting the same speech that he delivered to his audience at the beginning of the film: "What is real? How do you know that at this second you aren't asleep in your beds, dreaming that you are here in this theater?" And in the audience an unimpressed Sherry turns to Jack, muttering, "You know what I think? I think he's a phony."Tough Chicago Police Lieutenant Jim Brannigan  is sent to London to extradite a notorious American gangster, Ben Larkin . Brannigan is assigned a local officer, Jennifer , to help while he is in London. Before he can collect him Larkin is kidnapped, by Mel Fields  and Brannigan spends the rest of the film running around London in search of Larkin. Whilst struggling to adapt to the British way of life, and the restrained style of policing, he employs techniques not usually seen in Britain. In the meantime, a contract has been put out on Brannigan's life by Larkin to prevent him from being extradited to the United States. The contract is picked up by Gorman . Commander Swann , in charge of helping Brannigan get Larkin to America, is a stuffy, upper class, Metropolitan Police Commander who's not afraid to get his hands dirty. There is continual conflict between Brannigan and Swann about Brannigan's carrying, and use of, his handgun.The film depicts a future in which all plant life on Earth has been made extinct. Only a few specimens have been preserved in enormous, greenhouse-like geodesic domes attached to a fleet of American Airlines space freighters, just outside the orbit of Saturn. Freeman Lowell , one of four crewmen aboard the Valley Forge, is the resident botanist and ecologist who preserves the forests for their eventual return to Earth and the reforestation of the planet. Lowell spends most of his time in the forests, cultivating the plant and animal life. When orders come from Earth to jettison and destroy the domes  and return the freighters to commercial service, Lowell rebels and opts instead to save the forests and animals on his ship. After four of the six domes on the Valley Forge are jettisoned and destroyed, Lowell kills one of his crewmates in a struggle, and his right leg is seriously injured in the process. Nevertheless, he prevents the destruction of one of the remaining domes by trapping the other two crewmen in the other dome, which he jettisons and destroys. Enlisting the aid of the ship's three service robots, which he later nicknames Huey, Dewey, and Louie , Lowell stages a fake premature explosion as a ruse and sends the Valley Forge careening away from the space freighter fleet towards Saturn in an attempt to hijack the ship and flee with the last forest dome. Now alone, Lowell reprograms the drones to perform surgery on his leg and sets the Valley Forge on a risky course through Saturn's rings. As the ship endures a rough passage, Drone 3  is ripped away from the ship. The ship and its remaining dome emerge relatively undamaged on the other side of the rings. Lowell and the other drones set out into deep space to maintain the forest. Lowell teaches Huey and Dewey to plant trees and play poker. Drone 2  is damaged when Lowell accidentally collides with him while driving a buggy recklessly. During a scene where Drone 2  is being repaired, Drone 1  sentimentally refuses to leave the side of Drone 2. As time passes Lowell is horrified when he learns that his forest is dying, but is unable to come up with a solution to the problem. When the Berkshire eventually reestablishes contact with Lowell, he knows that his acts will soon be discovered. It is then that he realizes a lack of light has restricted plant growth, and he races to install lamps to correct this situation. In an effort to save the last forest before the Berkshire catches up to him, Lowell jettisons the dome to safety. He then detonates nuclear charges, destroying himself, drone 2  and the Valley Forge. The final scene is of the well-lit forest greenhouse drifting into deep space, with Drone 1  tenderly caring for it, holding a battered old watering can.The film revolves around Adam Gaines , a Semantics professor at a California college. He becomes complacent in his life and hears about the death of a relative in Missouri. He drives cross country to attend the funeral and pay his respects, and decides to spend the summer there working as a laborer. He meets Jerri Jo Hopper  and falls in love, along the way developing new friendships with the town locals. He then must decide what direction he wants his life to go, whether to return to California or stay in Missouri.The film begins with a man named Conrad von Starke  the Commandant driving down a road, listening to a war crimes trial on the radio. He stops the car and exits at the ruins of an old death camp. There he meets Lise Cohen . It is revealed that Lise is a former prisoner of the camp and the commandant has arranged to meet her several years after World War II, to thank her for testimony she provided which saved him from certain death. Lise and the Commandant make love. Lise has a flashback to the time she spent at the camp during the war. A shipment of female prisoners arrives. Some are immediately sent to the gas chamber and some burned alive. In a hall, other women are stripped naked and subjected to an orgy by members of the SS-Totenkopfverbände, aroused after watching a porn film depicting scenes of rape, mother-daughter incest and bondage, coprophagia and extreme sex. The female inmates are then raped, tortured, sodomized with bats, and sexually humiliated while the Commandant and his lover Alma, a fellow SS officer, watch in excitement. Later, a woman has sex with an SS guard, who is himself shot when he speaks out against her rape by other guards. An inmate having her menstrual cycle is ordered to be thrown to the dogs by Alma, and more sex scenes between guards and inmates take place. Starke becomes interested in Lise, finding himself obsessed by her unbreakable spirit. Since whatever he does to torture her does not demoralize her, Starke grows angry and drops her only friend at the camp into a pit of quicklime as Lise, stripped nude and hanging from her wrists, is forced to watch. The Commandant threatens to drop Lise into the pit as well. Unfazed by this, Lise is whipped, has her head placed in a box filled with rats  and raped, but still she does not cry out. She goes to the hospital and is treated by the Doctor, revealing to him why she does not cry. She wants to die, as she betrayed her family to the Nazis years earlier and feels intense guilt about it. When the Doctor tells her it was not her fault, she becomes determined to survive. She has sex with the Doctor, reaffirming her decision to live. Meanwhile, Starke and his SS staff debate Nazi theories at the dinner table, and an SS Guard tells them of his hopes that there will one day be farms so the Jews can be eaten as a food source. The staff become aroused by this and burn a female prisoner alive by dousing her in liquor and setting her alight. They practice coprophagia and follow by practicing both cannibalism and infanticide, eating a stew made of unborn Jewish infants, finally eating the body of the woman on the table as well. Lise is tortured further by Starke, who tells her he has fallen in love with her. She claims to love him as well, and begins an extreme sexual relationship with him, willingly donning a gruesome belt made of the scalps of fellow inmates to prove her affections. The Commandant is later sodomized with his own whip by jealous Alma, who realizes the extent of Starke's feelings for Lise. Lise gives birth to a child, but the baby is killed by the Commandant because it is half-Jewish, and a "half-breed" would have no place in the world. We return to the present-day, where Lise and Starke still stand in the ruined camp. Lise shoots him and his body falls into a pit. In alternate edits of the film, Lise shoots Starke and then herself.Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn play hooky from school and have a plan to revive a dead cat with the spirit of a man who is on his death bed. Sawyer and Finn talk with Muff Potter, the town drunk, but are interrupted when Injun Joe says that Doc Robinson wants to see them. Muff and Joe meet Robinson and he informs them that they have a job to dig the grave of Williams. Joe is angry that Robinson didn't fix his leg correctly. Meanwhile, Tom continues to skip school and comes up with fantastic stories about why he's not home for dinner, where he tricks the children of the town to do his punishment chores for him. After Williams dies, the two go to the graveyard and find out that Muff and Joe are digging up a grave on the advice of Robinson. Joe continues to be angry at Robinson and demands more money for the job. When Robinson refuses, Injun Joe picks up a shovel, accidentally knocking Huck out, hits Doc Robinson into the grave with the shovel, then grabs Muff's knife and jumps in after Doc Robinson. Tom and Huck witness all this and then run off, making a pact not to tell anyone what they saw. Joe frames Muff for the murder and Muff goes to jail. Meanwhile, the beautiful Becky Thatcher moves to town which sends Sawyer into a romantic daze. At the trial for Muff, Tom is unable to contain himself as Joe is called to the stand and lies about the incident, continuing to frame Muff for the murder. As Tom is called to the stand, he relates what happened, not mentioning that Huck was with him. Suddenly, Injun Joe throws a knife at Tom, narrowly missing Tom's head and jumps out the window of the courthouse, fleeing. After the trial, Tom and Becky get "engaged" but that quickly ends when Tom mentions he's also engaged to Amy Lawrence. After sulking, Tom is attacked by Finn for "breaking the pact" and they both decide to run away. While paddling down the Mississippi, their raft is capsized by a passing riverboat and they end up on an island where they enjoy freedom and muse over what happened to Injun Joe. While on the island, they witness some people "dragging the river", a process where a cannon is fired to bring up any bodies from the bottom of the river. Tom and Huck decide to "go home" and find out that there's a funeral being held for them. The funeral service breaks up when Judge Thatcher sees them in the back of the church. The Widow Douglas takes Finn under her wing after that. Later, at an Independence Day celebration, Tom and Becky go into McDougal's Cave for a drink of water from the underground spring and run into Injun Joe. Joe chases them through the cave, intent to kill Tom. However, Judge Thatcher, Muff and Huck catch up to Joe and Muff throws a torch at Joe who falls to his death afterwards. Later, Huck disappears, worrying the Widow Douglas and Tom finds him at the old fishing place they hang out at. Tom berates Huck for worrying Douglas, and Muff decides to leave the town.Jack and Gary steal an car and head off around the back roads of Western New South Wales. They pickup a trio of fellow travellers - Gary's uncle Joe, a French hitchhiker and an embittered woman. Joe drunkenly shoots a stranger and they are chased by police. The police arrest Joe and Jack and shoots Gary.The special was hosted by C-3PO  and R2-D2.{{cite news}} A voiceover narration was additionally supplied by William Conrad. It features behind-the-scenes footage from Star Wars, and interviews with writer/director George Lucas, producer Gary Kurtz, and castmembers Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, Harrison Ford, and Alec Guinness.{{cite news}}  Premiering four months after the release of the film, the special was the first Star Wars documentary ever made. It is also notable for showing footage not seen in the film, particularly the scene between Han Solo and Jabba the Hutt in its original form in which Jabba was played by Irish actor Declan Mulholland .A brief glimpse of another deleted scene between Luke Skywalker and Biggs Darklighter on Tatooine is also included.B.J. Hammer is a boxer who rises up the ranks with help from the Mafia. However, Hammer doesn't realize that the help comes with a price: He is asked to throw a fight. Gangsters threaten to harm his girlfriend in an attempt to force him to go through with their plan. Hammer is forced to figure out a way to save his dignity and the life of his girlfriend, who has been kidnapped by gangsters.The movie revolves around the exploits of Captain Nolan , an Irish Canadian who catches marine animals in order to pay off the mortgage of his boat, and return to Ireland. Nolan's crew is looking for a great white shark for a local aquarium, but a scientist named Ken  is being targeted by the shark. A killer whale comes and kills the shark, subsequently saving Ken. This switches Nolan's target to the killer whale and while he is on the journey with his crew, he tries to capture what he believes to be a male whale, but mistakenly harpoons a pregnant female. She tries to kill herself and is injured by the boat's propellers, but Nolan and his crew get the orca on board, where it subsequently miscarries. The crew hoses the dead fetus overboard as the male looks on screaming. Later that night, seeking release of his near-dead mate, the male orca tries to sink the ship. One of Nolan's crew members, Novak , cuts the female off the ship, but the male leaps and drags him into the sea. The following day, the orca pushes his now dead mate onto shore. Alan Swain  berates Nolan on his actions after finding the dead whale on shore. Nolan denies responsibility, but Swain and the villagers eventually find out his involvement. The villagers insist that he stay and kill the whale, as its presence is causing the fish vital to the village's economy to migrate. The orca then terrorizes the village, first by sinking two fishing boats in broad daylight and then by breaking fuel lines at night, which causes a fire and subsequent explosion of the village's fuel reserves. Dr. Rachel Bedford , colleague of Ken and whale expert, shows him how similar whales are to humans and tells Nolan that, "If he [the orca] is like a human, what he wants isn't necessarily what he should have." Nolan confesses to Rachel that he empathises with the whale, as his own wife and unborn child had previously been killed in a car crash caused by a drunk driver. Nolan promises Rachel not to fight the whale, but the whale attacks his sea-front house, containing an injured crew member of Nolan's, Annie  within it. The house starts slipping into the sea and the whale bites Annie's leg off. Nolan decides to fight the orca, much to the delight of the villagers, although with Novak dead and Annie maimed for life, he and Paul are now the only crew members left. Dr. Bedford and Ken go with him, as well as a native American man, Jacob Umilak , who joins them to share his knowledge. The crew begins to pursue the whale after it signals Nolan to follow him. Ken is leaning over the side when the whale surfaces and grabs him, killing him in the process. They keep following the whale until they start to reach the Strait of Belle Isle. Paul starts to get into a lifeboat, but the maddened orca knocks Paul out of the boat and drowns him. The next day, the whale shoves an iceberg into the boat and starts to sink it. Nolan manages to harpoon the whale just before he and Dr. Bedford escape from the boat, while Umilak is crushed beneath an avalanche of ice just after sending out an SOS. Nolan and Dr. Bedford hide in an iceberg, but Nolan slips onto another. The orca separates the icebergs, trapping Nolan. The whale jumps onto the ice, causing it to tilt and send Nolan into the water. The whale lifts Nolan up with his tail and throws him onto another iceberg, killing him. Dr. Bedford looks on in shock as Nolan slips into the water in a cross shape. With his revenge complete, the whale swims under the ice Southward, while a helicopter is seen to rescue Dr. Bedford.Robertson's title character is a professional cowboy who wants to work the rodeo circuit and is given the chance by a rodeo impresario: this stroke of luck after he is released from jail for the passing of bad checks. He then hits the road with a few friends and a girl who likes Coop. Upon breaking into the circuit, Coop must prove he is good, but doing so is not easy.The film starts with the murder of District Attorney Vargas in Palermo, amongst a climate of demontrations, strikes and political tension between the Left and the government. The subsequent investigation failing, the police assign the protagonist Inspector Rogas  to solve the case. While he is starting his investigation, two judges are killed. All victims turn out to have worked together on several cases. After Rogas discovers evidence of corruption surrounding the three government officials, he is encouraged by superiors "not to forage after gossip," but to trail the "crazy lunatic who for no reason whatever is going about murdering judges." This near admission of guilt drives Rogas to seek out three men wrongfully convicted by the murdered judges. He is joined by a journalist friend working for a far-left newspaper, Cusan. Rogas finds his likely suspect in Cres, a man who was convicted of attempting to kill his wife. Mrs. Cres accused her husband of trying to kill her by poisoning her rice pudding, which she escaped only because she fed a small portion first to her cat, who died. Rogas concludes that he was probably framed by his wife, and seeks him out, only to find that he has disappeared from his house. Meanwhile another district attorney is killed, and eyewitnesses see two young revolutionaries running away from the scene. Rogas, close to finding his man, is demoted, and told to work with the political division to pin the crimes on the revolutionary Leftist terrorist groups. Rogas discovers that his phone is tapped. He seeks out the Supreme Court's president  in order to warn him that he is most likely the next victim. The president details a philosophy of justice wherein the court is incapable of error by definition. Music from a party in the same building leads to Rogas discovering the Minister of Justice  at the party with many revolutionary leaders, amongst them the editor of the revolutionary paper Cusan is working for, Galano, and Mrs. Cres. He and the Minister have a discussion, where the Minister reveals that sooner or later, his party will have to form a coalition with the Communist Party, and that it will be their task to prosecute the far-leftist groups. The murdering of the judges as well as Rogas's investigations help raising the tensions and justifying the prosecution of the far-left groups. Rogas also discovers that his suspect, Cres, is present at the party. Rogas meets with the Secretary-General of the Communist Party in a museum. Both of them are killed. Amongst raising tensions between revolutionaries and the government, who mobilize the army, the murder of the Secretary-General is blamed on Rogas by the chief of police. The film ends with a discussion between Cusan and the vice-secretary of the Communist Party, who claims that the time is not yet ready for the revolution and the party will not react to the government's actions. "But then the people must never know the truth?", asks Cusan. The vice-secretary answers: "The truth is not always revolutionary."While scuba-diving near shipwrecks off Bermuda, vacationing couple David Sanders  and Gail Berke  recover a number of artifacts, including an ampoule of amber-colored liquid and a medallion bearing the image of a woman and the letters "O.P.N.S.C"  and a date, 1714. Sanders and Berke seek the advice of lighthouse-keeper and treasure-hunter Romer Treece ([[Robert Shaw  on the origin of the medallion, who identifies the item as Spanish and takes an interest in the young couple. The ampule is noticed by the man who had rented diving equipment to Sanders and Berke, which in turn attracts the attention of Henri Cloche , a local drug kingpin for whom the shop owner works, who wants to buy the ampule with no luck and then begins to terrorize the couple with Haitian black magic. The ampule contains medicinal morphine from the Goliath, a ship that sank during World War II with a cargo of munitions and medical supplies. The wreck of the Goliath is considered dangerous and is posted as off-limits to divers due to the danger of explosions. Treece concludes that a recent storm has exposed her cargo of morphine and unearthed a much older wreck containing Spanish treasure. Treece makes a deal with Cloche, so they can dive in peace making him believe he will get the ampules for a million dollars, while his real plan is to have the chance to find the treasure. Cloche gives him 3 days to recover them. Sanders, Berke, and Treece make several dives to the wrecks, recovering thousands of morphine ampules from Goliath and several additional artifacts from the Spanish wreck. Adam Coffin , the only survivor from Goliath joins to help in the boat but his loyalty is not very clear when they get attacked by sharks and he only says "that he probably fell asleep" without noticing they were in trouble. Through research in Treece's library, they reconstruct the history of the lost treasure ship, locate a list of valuable items, including a metallic jar with the letters "EF" engraved on it, and learn the identity of the noblewoman  for whom they were made by the king of Spain. Sanders is determined to locate at least one item on the list to establish provenance; since without it there is no value to the treasure. Treece wishes to destroy the Goliath to put the morphine out of reach of Cloche; and Cloche interferes with their efforts so that he can recover the morphine for himself. During a running series of conflicts Treece's friend Kevin  is murdered by one of Cloche's henchmen and Adam betrays them and is killed when he triggers a booby-trap while trying to steal the recovered morphine. A climactic battle during the final dive ensues, with Cloche and his divers being killed in the destruction of the Goliath and the recovery of a gold dragon necklace that will provide the needed provenance of the treasure.The key subplot is the drab uniformity of Brezhnev era public architecture. This is made explicit in a humorous animated prologue, in which architects are overruled by politicians and red tape. This results in the entire planet being polluted with identical, unimaginative multistory apartment buildings, called Brezhnevki, of the sort that can, in fact, be found in every city, town, and suburb across the former Soviet Union. These buildings are uniform right down to the door key of each apartment. The rest of the film is live-action. Following their annual tradition, a group of friends meet at a banya  in Moscow to celebrate New Year's Eve . The friends all get very drunk toasting the upcoming marriage of the central male character, Zhenya Lukashin  to Galya . After the bath, one of the friends, Pavlik , has to catch a plane to Leningrad; Zhenya, on the other hand, is supposed to go home to celebrate New Year's Eve with his fiancée. Both Zhenya and Pavlik pass out. The others cannot remember which of their unconscious friends is supposed to be catching the plane; eventually they mistakenly decide that it is Zhenya and put him on a plane instead of Pavlik. On the plane, he collapses onto the shoulder of his annoyed seatmate, played by the director himself  in a brief comedic cameo appearance. The seatmate helps Zhenya get off the plane in Leningrad. He wakes up in Leningrad airport, believing he is still in Moscow. He stumbles into a taxi and, still quite drunk, gives the driver his address. It turns out that in Leningrad there is a street with the same name , with a building at his address which looks exactly like Zhenya's. The key fits in the door of the apartment with the same number . Inside, even the furniture and layout of the apartment is nearly identical to that of Zhenya's apartment. Zhenya is too drunk to notice the differences, and goes to sleep. Later, the real tenant, Nadya Shevelyova , arrives home to find a strange man sleeping in her bed. To make matters worse, Nadya’s fiancé, Ippolit ([[Yuriy Yakovlev , arrives before Nadya can convince Zhenya to get up and leave. Ippolit becomes furious, refuses to believe Zhenya and Nadya's explanations, and storms out. Zhenya desperately tries to get back to Moscow, and Nadya herself wants to get rid of him as soon as possible, but unfortunately there are no flights to Moscow until the next morning. Thus the two are compelled to spend New Year's Eve together. At first they continue to treat each other with animosity, but gradually their behavior softens and the two fall in love. Comedic moments punctuated by unexpected guests, the repeated returns of the jealous Ippolit, the buzzing of the doorbell, and the ringing of the phone are interwoven with the slowly developing love story. In the morning, they feel that everything that has happened to them was a delusion, and they make the difficult decision to part. With a heavy heart, Zhenya returns to Moscow. Meanwhile Nadya reconsiders everything and, deciding that she might have let her chance at happiness slip away, takes a plane to Moscow following Zhenya, easily finding him in Moscow, since their addresses are the same.The story begins in 1885 with the arrival of an important new guest star in Buffalo Bill Cody’s grand illusion, Chief Sitting Bull of Little Big Horn fame. Much to Cody's annoyance, Sitting Bull proves to be not a murdering savage but a genuine embodiment of what the whites believe about their own history out west. He is quietly heroic and morally pure. Sitting Bull also refuses to portray Custer's Last Stand as a cowardly sneak attack. Instead, he asks Cody to act out the massacre of a peaceful Sioux village by marauding bluecoats. An enraged Cody fires him but is forced to relent when star attraction Annie Oakley takes Sitting Bull's side.In the Sonoran Desert, French scientist Claude Lacombe and his American interpreter, mapmaker David Laughlin, along with other government scientific researchers, discover Flight 19, a squadron of Grumman TBF Avengers that went missing more than 30 years earlier. The planes are intact and operational, but there is no sign of the pilots. An old man who witnessed the event claimed "the sun came out at night, and sang to him." They also find a lost ship in the Gobi Desert named SS Cotopaxi. At an Air Traffic Control center in Indianapolis, Indiana, a controller listens as two airline flights almost have a mid-air collision with an apparent unidentified flying object . In Muncie, Indiana, 3-year-old Barry Guiler is awakened in the night when his toys start operating on their own. Fascinated, he gets out of bed and discovers something or someone  in the kitchen. He runs outside, forcing his mother, Jillian, to chase after him. Investigating one of a series of large-scale power outages, Indiana electrical lineman Roy Neary experiences a close encounter with a UFO, when it flies over his truck and lightly burns the side of his face with its bright lights. The UFO, along with three others, are pursued by Neary and three police cars, but the spacecrafts fly off into the night sky. Roy becomes fascinated by UFOs, much to the dismay of his wife, Ronnie. He also becomes increasingly obsessed with subliminal, mental images of a mountain-like shape and begins to make models of it. Jillian also becomes obsessed with sketching a unique-looking mountain. Soon after, she is terrorized in her home by a UFO encounter in which Barry is abducted by unseen beings. Lacombe and Laughlin—along with a group of United Nations experts—continue to investigate increasing UFO activity investigate and strange, related occurrences. Witnesses report that the UFOs make distinctive sounds: a five-tone musical phrase in a major scale. Scientists broadcast the phrase to outer space, but are mystified by the response: a seemingly meaningless series of numbers repeated over and over, until Laughlin recognizes it as a set of geographical coordinates pointing to Devils Tower near Moorcroft, Wyoming. Lacombe and the U.S. military converge on Wyoming. The United States Army evacuates the area, planting false reports in the media that a train wreck has spilled a toxic nerve gas, all the while preparing a secret landing zone for the UFOs and their occupants. Meanwhile, Roy's increasingly erratic behavior causes Ronnie to leave him, taking their three children with her. When a despairing Roy inadvertently sees a television news program about the train wreck near Devils Tower, he realizes the mental image of a mountain plaguing him is real. Jillian sees the same broadcast, and she and Roy, as well as others with similar visions and experiences, travel to the site in spite of the false public warnings about nerve gas. While most of the civilians who are drawn to the site are apprehended by the Army, Roy and Jillian persist and make it to the site just as dozens of UFOs appear in the night sky. The government specialists at the site begin to communicate with the UFOs by use of light and sound on a large electrical billboard. Following this, an enormous mother ship lands at the site, returning people who had been abducted over the past decades, including Barry, and the missing pilots from Flight 19 and sailors from the Cotopaxi, who have not aged since their abductions. The government officials decide to include Roy in a group of people whom they have selected to be potential visitors to the mothership, and hastily prepare him. As the aliens finally emerge from the mothership, they select Roy to join them on their travels. As Roy enters the mothership, one of the aliens pauses for a few moments with the humans. Lacombe uses Curwen hand signs that correspond to the five note alien tonal phrase. The alien replies with the same gestures, smiles, and returns to its ship, which lifts off into the night sky.During the Battle of France, while the German forces are spreading quickly inside the country, the 7th Transmission Company, suffered an air raid near the Machecoul wood. After driving through the shells, the company succeeds to enter and hide itself within the wood. Captain Dumont, the company commander, sent three of his men, Louis Chaudard, Pithiviers and Tassin scouting the area and providing overwatch. After taking care of burying the radio cable beneath the sandy road, the little squad crosses the field, climbed the closing hill and took position within a wall- covered area, which occurred to be a cemetery. Unfortunately, one of the company men who was cutting down trees for camouflage, hit the wrong tree, leveling up the radio cable from the sandy road and getting it completely on sight when a German infantry division whhich chasing the unit passed. The Germans cut the cable, surround the woods and order a puzzled 7th to surrender. During that time, Chaudard and his mates, who spotted the Germans, tries with no success  to contact and join their unit. They can only witnessed their comrades captures and decide to run away. Now on their own and under the lead of Staff Sergeant Chaudard who absolutely wants to join and free his unit, the 3 soldiers began their adventures. After a long day-walk, the group stopped in a wood to pass the night. Pithiviers, who loves the situation  is more than decided to slow down the walk and patiently wait for the end of the campaign! The next day, while his mates are still sleeping, he goes for a swim in the surrounding lake, completely in sight of possible German fighters. When Chaudard and Tassin wake up, they leave the camp without their weapons to look after Pithiviers. Tassin finally finds him and after an angry warning, is convinced by Pithiviers to join him in the lake. Soon Afterwards, seeing his two men happily struggling in the water, Chaudard orders them to go out immediately but he got distracted by a rabbit and fall down in the lake fully clothed. Later, while Chaudard teaches his men how to swim like him, two German fighters appears, pushing the 3 guys out of the water. While waiting his clothes to dry, Chaudard attended an air combat between one French fighter and two Bf 109. After shooting down one of the German plane, the French pilot, Lieutenant Duvauchel, has to land in emergency and escape his plane before it blasts. When the team is ready to go, the lazy PFC Pithiviers, seeing the bad shape of one of his shoe after numerous chutes and still decided to stay on the camp, voluntarily fall down, destroying what's left of his shoe sole. Aware of the laziness of Pithiviers, Chaudard left him an angry look and decide to delay the departure. He sent Tassin, who loves to eat, in scout patrol to get food and a new pair of shoes for Pithiviers. After an hour walk, Tassin finally arrived in a farm but all his occupants were absent except the dog. After Tassin went back and the night fall down, Chaudard went to the farm and was happily welcomed by the dog. The farm holder who just got back to home with her daughter-in-law and Lt Duvauchel, welcomed Chaudard who tells her wrongly that he and his 9 men are still fighting inside the wood. Duvauchel, who was hiding behind the door, appears to a puzzled Chaudard and decide to go with him meeting the group. When Chaudard and Duvauchel finally joins the camp, Tassin and Pithiviers are roasting a rabbit they caught during Chaudard's absence. When they realized that Chaudard didn't come back alone, Tassin and Pithiviers stands the guard hiding the rabbit behind their backs. Duvauchel realized also that all what Chaudard says was a lie and took the command. The following day, the now 4 men leave the wood in early morning  and capture a German armored tow truck after killing its 2 drivers. With the former plan to abandon the truck and the two nazis in a wood, they finally realize that the vehicle is the best way to free the 7th company without being detected. Then they disguised themselves with the Germans suits and followed their road. Then they recovered one of their own who succeeded to escape and got a lot of resources from a collaborationist who confounded them with Germans. On their way, they encountered a French Gendarmerie patrol who occurred to be a 5th column one. They injured the young soldier who just joined the group and got killed by Tassin who already shot down the truck's driver. In revenge, they use their cover to destroy a German Tank thanks to the cannon gun of the tow truck. By a happy shot of luck, planning to go to Paris, they were misguided by their own colonel, took the wrong road and finally found the 7th Company with their German Guards who were bringing them in Germany. Using again their cover, they forced the guards to run in front of the truck, allowing the company to get away. When Captain Dumont joined his getaway troops, the truck with Chaudard, Tassin and Pithiviers aboard saluting the German Commander with a great smile, got away to join the 7th.Based on the non-fiction book by Peter Maas, the film covers twelve years  in the life of Frank Serpico, a NYPD officer who wants to do the best he can as a policeman. Working as a uniformed patrolman, Serpico succeeds in every assignment. He moves on to plainclothes assignments, where he slowly discovers a hidden world of illicit activities among his own colleagues. After witnessing cops doing drugs, committing violence, taking paybacks and other forms of police corruption, Serpico decides to expose what he's seen, but he is harassed and threatened. The struggle leads to infighting within the police force, problems in his personal relationships, and life-threatening situations. Finally, after being shot in the face during a drug bust on February 3, 1971, he testifies before the Knapp Commission, which was a government inquiry into police corruption between 1970 and 1972.Dingus Magee  is an outlaw in the old west who undertakes a series of comic adventures with the local sheriff  in pursuit.The Yamato and her crew face the onslaught of the Comet Empire, a civilization from the Andromeda Galaxy that seeks to conquer Earth, led by Zwordar the Great . The Earth ship is aided by an antimatter woman, Teresa of Telezart , while the Comet Empire has revived Earth's greatest enemy, the Gamilas' leader Desslar, who is eager for revenge. After an immense battle destroys the forces of both Earth and the Comet Empire, the Yamato destroys the White Comet's cover, revealing the Empire City that hid inside it. After a long battle, Susumu Kodai orders everyone else off the Yamato before ramming her into the Emperor's ship head-on, sacrificing his life and the ship to defeat Zwordar and save humanity.Marvin Lucas , a political election specialist, must find a Democratic candidate to unseat California U.S. Senator Crocker Jarmon, a popular Republican. With no big-name Democrat eager to enter the seemingly unwinnable race, Lucas seeks out Bill McKay , the idealistic, charismatic son of former governor John J. McKay . Lucas gives McKay a proposition: Jarmon cannot lose and, since the race is already decided, McKay is free to campaign saying exactly what he wants. McKay accepts to have the chance to spread his values, and hits the trail. With no serious Democratic opposition, McKay cruises to the nomination on his name alone. Lucas then has distressing news: according to the latest election projections, McKay will be defeated by an overwhelming margin. McKay counted on losing but not on being humiliated, so he broadens his message to appeal to more voters. McKay campaigns across the state, his message growing more generic each day. This approach lifts him in the opinion polls, but he has a new problem: Because McKay's father has stayed out of the race, the media speculates his silence is an endorsement of Jarmon. McKay begrudgingly meets his father and tells him the problem, and the elder McKay tells the media he is simply honoring his son's wishes to stay out of the race. McKay continues to gain in the polls until he is only nine points down. Jarmon then proposes a debate. McKay agrees to give tailored answers, but just as the debate is ending, McKay has a pang of conscience and blurts out that the debate addressed no real issues, such as poverty and race relations. Lucas is furious, as this will hurt the campaign. The media try to confront McKay backstage, but arrive as his father congratulates him on the debate; instead of reporting on McKay's outburst, the story becomes the reemergence of the former governor to help his son. The positive story, coupled with McKay's father's help on the trail, further closes the polling gap. On election day, McKay wins. In one of the movie's famous scenes, he escapes the victory party and pulls Lucas into a room while throngs of journalists clamor outside. McKay asks Lucas, "Marvin ... What do we do now?" The media throng arrives to drag them out, and McKay never receives an answer.A bank temporarily housed in a mobile home while a new building is built, looks like an easy target to break into. On the other hand, why not steal the whole bank, and rob it in a safer location?The violent, documentary-like film chronicles the underworld tribulations of Shozo Hirono , a young ex-soldier and street thug in post-war Hiroshima. Starting in the open-air black markets of bombed-out Hiroshima in 1945, the film spans a period of more than ten years. The plot consists of a changing of the guard of new families and organizations with the same feuds and people, punctuated by the gritty violence. It gave way to four sequels, which form a sprawling yakuza epic. The overall tone of the series is bleak, violent and chaotic, expressing the futility of the struggles between yakuza families.The microscopic alien lifeform Hedorah feeds on Earth's pollution and grows into a poisonous, acid-secreting sea monster. After it attacks Dr. Yano and his young son Ken, scarring them both, Hedorah's toxic existence is revealed to the public. Ken has visions of Godzilla fighting the world's pollution, and insists Godzilla will come to mankind's aid against Hedorah. Hedorah evolves into an amphibian form, allowing it to move onto land to feed on additional sources of pollution. Hedorah is confronted by Godzilla and Hedorah only an amphibian at the time is easily overpowered by Godzilla and retreats into the sea but returns shortly thereafter in a flying saucer shape demonstrating new, even deadlier forms which it can switch between at will. Thousands of people die in Hedorah's raids and even Godzilla is overwhelmed by Hedorah's poisonous emissions. As hope sinks, a party is thrown on Mt. Fuji to celebrate one last day of life before mankind succumbs to Hedorah. Ken realizes that Godzilla and Hedorah have come to Mt. Fuji as well for a final confrontation. Dr. Yano has determined that drying out Hedorah's body may destroy the otherwise unkillable monster. The army swiftly constructs two gigantic electrodes for this purpose, but their power is cut off by Godzilla and Hedorah's violent battle. Godzilla energizes the electrodes with his atomic ray, dehydrating Hedorah's outer body. Hedorah sheds this outer body and takes flight to escape, but Godzilla propels himself through the air with his atomic ray to give chase. Godzilla drags Hedorah back to the electrodes and continues to dehydrate it until Hedorah dies. Godzilla tears apart Hedorah's dried-out body and dehydrates the remains until nothing remains but dust. With Ken calling after him, Godzilla returns to the sea, but not before glaring threateningly at the surviving humanity whose pollution spawned Hedorah. The question arises: Could it happen again?In a retelling of the Frank Capra film Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. Billy Jack ([[Tom Laughlin  is appointed a United States Senator to fill out the remaining term of another Senator. It is hoped that he will quietly vote the party line, but his term in the Senate runs into trouble when he proposes a bill to fund a national youth camp which happens to be on the property where a nuclear power plant is also being proposed. His fellow Senator Joseph Paine  claims to oppose nuclear power but is secretly taking graft to influence his votes in favor, and moves to try to keep Billy Jack out of the way when the bill is being debated. Seeking to keep Billy out of the Senate on a day when a controversial energy bill is being voted on, Senator Paine suggests he meet with a grassroots group that day instead. The group is working to pass a national initiative and Billy Jack becomes convinced of their cause. Billy is invited to meet with a group of lobbyists attempting to offer him bribes and other perks if he will vote their way. Up against a man named Bailey  who wields a powerful influence in his home state, Billy Jack has his political career and reputation at stake if he doesn't cooperate. Billy responds with anger at their threat. The next day in the Senate, he tries to speak on the floor in opposition to the nuclear power plant. Paine responds by proposing to expel Billy from the Senate as unfit for office. Billy's assistant quits after the murder of a lobbyist, fearing for her own safety, but returns later in the film after Billy Jack is about to be expelled from the Senate, to help him learn Senate procedure in order to filibuster. Billy collapses on the Senate floor in the effort, whereupon Paine confesses to his colleagues that every word Billy spoke was the truth.The economic stability of Wakonda, Oregon, is threatened when the local logging union calls a strike against a large lumber conglomerate. When independent logger Hank Stamper and his father Henry are urged to support the strikers, they refuse, and the townspeople consider them traitors. Hank struggles to keep the small family business alive and consequently widens the rift between himself and his complacent wife Viv, who wants him to put an end to the territorial struggle but is resigned to his doing things as he sees fit. Also complicating matters is Leland Stamper, Henry's youngest son and Hank's half-brother, who returns home with a college education and experience in urban living. A heavy drinker, Lee eventually reveals he attempted suicide after his mother killed herself and has been suffering from deep depression ever since. Despite the fact he is uncomfortable living with a family he barely knows, Lee joins forces with them when they are forced to battle both the locals, who have burned their equipment, and the elements, which threaten their efforts to transport their logs downriver.The movie, set in 1967, is about the real-life sheriff Buford Pusser, who goes after a criminal who has killed young people with his illegal moonshine. Brian Dennehy plays Pusser. The rest of the cast include Ken Howard, Sheree North, Forrest Tucker, and Brian Kerwin.A young boy witnesses mobsters beating his father to death. Twenty years later, he sets out on a quest to eliminate all of the gang members involved in the murder. After an attempt to kill one of them goes wrong he decides to kidnap the man's daughter for ransom. Things get complicated as the two fall in love. Meanwhile, the police are attempting to track them down.Sometime in the near future a high-tech, highly realistic adult amusement park called Delos features androids that are almost indistinguishable from human beings. For $1,000 per day, guests may indulge in any fantasy, including killing or having sex with the androids. Delos' tagline in its advertising promises "Have we got a vacation for you!" The androids are programmed to act in character for each of the park's three themed "worlds"&nbsp;— West World , Medieval World , and Roman World . One of the attractions in West World is the Gunslinger , a robot programmed to start duels. Thanks to its programming, humans can always outdraw the Gunslinger and kill it. The guns issued to the guests also have temperature sensors that prevent them from shooting each other or anything else living, but allow them to "kill" the room-temperature androids. Peter Martin , a first-timer, and his friend John Blane , who has visited previously, visit West World. Gradually, the technicians running Delos begin to notice problems spreading like an infection among the androids: the robots in Medieval World begin suffering an inexplicable number of systemic failures, a robot rattlesnake bites Blane, and against its programming, an android refuses a guest's sexual advances. The failures increase until the robotic Black Knight kills a guest in a sword fight in Medieval World. The resort's supervisors, in increasing desperation, try to regain control by shutting down power to the entire park, but this traps them in the control rooms, unable to turn the power back on while the robots run amok on stored power. Martin and Blane, passed out drunk after a bar-room brawl, wake up in the West World bordello, unaware of the breakdown. When the Gunslinger challenges the two men to a showdown, Blane treats the confrontation as a typical amusement until the robot shoots and kills him. Martin runs for his life as the robot implacably follows him. Martin flees to the other areas of the park, but finds only a panicky fleeing technician, dead guests and damaged robots. He climbs down through a manhole to the underground control area, where the resort's technicians have suffocated since the ventilation shut down. As the Gunslinger stalks Martin through the corridors, he throws acid into its face and sets fire to it with a torch. He also finds a woman chained up in the dungeon, but she turns out to be an android. Finally, the burned hulk of the Gunslinger attacks him one last time before succumbing to its damage. The film ends as Martin, apparently the sole human survivor, sits down on the dungeon steps in a state of near-exhaustion and shock, as the irony of Delos' slogan resonates: "Have we got a vacation for you!"A group of soldiers led by Maj. Baker  is ordered to investigate a basement level station which they believed was attacked. After Baker contacts his commander, General Slater , they begin to investigate who drove a civilian van into the base. It is revealed to be owned by a scientist named Dr. Bradford Crane . Slater orders two choppers to check for a black mass , and they are sent out of the sky.The story is told in flashbacks and begins with a patrol being ambushed by the Vietcong, and the resulting firefight. The leader of the vigilante veterans is a man known simply as the Lieutenant. The film opens with the lieutenant leading his men in a raid on an illegal casino. It soon escalates to raids on drug dealers and stealing their money. By the end, they attack the head of the L.A. Mafia and his soldiers. One of them, a corrupt Los Angeles Police Department detective. The lieutenant and his men use M16 rifles to take out their enemies. One of the lieutenant's men is captured and gives up the lieutenant after being tortured but the head of the L.A. Mafia and the corrupt cop are among those killed.It is the maiden flight of America's first supersonic transport. Unfortunately, a disgruntled employee  annoyed with his employer—the designer of the aircraft  -- sabotages the hydraulic system, causing a massive leak of hydraulic fluid in-flight. Subsequent repair attempts by the crew cause an explosive decompression that breaks open a medical shipment of Senegal Flu, and the plane is refused landing rights in Europe. The aircraft eventually tries to divert to Senegal  However, there is not enough fuel and the pilots are forced to make an emergency landing in a mountain pass killing all on the plane but a few. Regis Philbin is a TV announcer covering the festivities. The jet is piloted by Robert Reed. Robert Ito is the navigator. Serving on board is steward Billy Crystal. Among the passengers is Bert Convy, playing the airline's publicity man who is having an affair with the model Misty Rowe who is the public face of the new aircraft. Doug McClure plays an ex-pilot who now works for an airline as an aircraft buyer. On boarding the plane he realises the stewardess Tina Louise is an old flame, one he tries to re-ignite. Lorne Greene also stars as the head of the company manufacturing the aircraft. Peter Graves, John de Lancie, and Brock Peters also star as passengers, with Burgess Meredith, Ric Carrott, Susan Strasberg and George Maharis in co-starring roles.A ghostly murder after another occurs on the castle of Count Mihajli after his death. The dead rebel against the experiments of the mad professor Droylaw, who had tried to cooperate with the Count to bring the dead back to life.Troma Releases Details for THE HANGING WOMAN DVD Horror icon Paul Naschy plays a necrophiliac grave robber who himself becomes one of the living dead by the end of the film, thus in effect giving Naschy two roles to play. Scream queen Dianik Zurakowska gets s lot of screen time in this cult classic, even baring her breasts in one scene.This synopsis is based on the extended version of the film released to Syndicated TV in the late '70s, the Japanese laserdisc and more recently on DVD and Blu-Ray. Told in flashback in the early 21st century, with a wraparound sequence by the Lawgiver  , this sequel follows the ape leader, Caesar , at least twelve years after he led the revolution in the previous film, Conquest of the Planet of the Apes. In this post-nuclear society, Caesar tries to cultivate peace between the apes and the surviving humans. A gorilla general named Aldo , however, opposes this and plots Caesar's downfall. Caesar is married to Lisa , the female ape of the previous film, and they have a son, named Cornelius  in honor of Caesar's father. Caesar regrets having never known his parents until his human assistant MacDonald  tells him about film archives of his parents, where he can also learn about the future. The archives are located in the Forbidden City, now a radioactive ruin. After obtaining weapons from the armory, Caesar travels with MacDonald and Virgil ([[Paul Williams  to the Forbidden City and sneaks in to find the archives. However, there are radiation-scarred humans still living there under the command of Governor Kolp . Caesar and his party view the recordings of Cornelius and Zira and learn about the future of the world, but barely have time to study the tapes before they have to escape being captured. Caesar assembles a meeting to report his discoveries at the Forbidden City. Aldo objects when some humans show up, and he leads the gorillas away. A team of scouts sent by Governor Kolp return and tell him about the Ape City. Kolp considers this covert trip by Caesar an act of espionage. His assistant, Méndez ([[Paul Stevens  believes they did nothing wrong and should be left alone, but Governor Kolp stubbornly declares war on Ape City, mustering the humans to destroy the ape society. Aldo is furious that Caesar wants to co-exist peacefully with humans, and plots a coup in order to become the Ape leader himself. Cornelius overhears this while trying to catch his escaped pet squirrel in a nearby tree. Aldo spots him and hacks the tree branch down, critically injuring Cornelius. After a gorilla scouting pair is attacked by the approaching humans , Aldo orders all humans to be corralled and leads the gorillas to loot the weapons armory. Cornelius eventually dies from his wounds, leaving Caesar devastated, but not without leaving him with a warning about Aldo's coup. It is at that moment that Kolp's ragtag force launches their attack against Ape City. The initial mutant attack succeeds, forcing Caesar to order the defenders to fall back. When Kolp finds Caesar lying among dozens of apes, he threatens to kill him, but the fallen apes, who were feigning death or hiding on Caesar's orders, launch a counter-attack that captures most of the mutants. Kolp and his remaining forces are killed by Aldo's troops while attempting to retreat. After the battle, Aldo wants to kill the penned humans, but Caesar shields them. Aldo declares that Caesar should be killed if he shields the humans. Before he can carry this out, Virgil reveal's Aldo's hand in Cornelius' death and the breaking of the ape community's most sacred law . An infuriated Caesar pursues Aldo up a large tree, resulting in Aldo falling to his death. Caesar then attempts to free the humans, but they refuse to leave the pen unless humans are treated as equals. Caesar then realizes the apes are just as despicable as the former slave-owners, and the apes and humans then decide to coexist with one another and begin a new society. The Lawgiver finishes the narration  to a group of young humans and apes. The two species have continued to coexist in peace. When asked by a human child "Who knows about the future?", the Lawgiver replies "Perhaps, only the dead." A closeup of a statue of Caesar shows a single tear falling from one eye.The film revolves around the smuggling of narcotics between Marseilles, France and New York City, USA. In Marseilles a policeman is staking out Alain Charnier , a French criminal who is smuggling heroin from France to the United States. The policeman is assassinated by Charnier's henchman, Pierre Nicoli . In New York, detectives James "Popeye" Doyle  and Buddy "Cloudy" Russo  are conducting an undercover stakeout in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. After seeing a drug transaction take place in a bar, Russo goes in to make an arrest and the suspect makes a break for it. After catching up with their suspect and delivering a severe beating after the suspect cuts Russo on the arm with a knife, the detectives aggressively interrogate the man, forcing him to reveal where his connection is based. After Russo's injury is treated, Doyle convinces him to go out for a drink. At the Copacabana, Doyle becomes interested in Salvatore "Sal" Boca  and his young wife, Angie , who are entertaining Mob members involved in narcotics. Doyle persuades his partner to tail the couple; although the Bocas run a modest newsstand luncheonette, they have criminal records: Sal is said to have held up Tiffany and also killed "a guy named DeMarco" while Angie drew a suspended sentence for shoplifting and Sal's brother Lou served jail time for assault and robbery. They make nearly nightly trips to several nightclubs, as well as drive several new cars, which indicate they may be involved in criminal activity. A link is established between the Bocas and lawyer Joel Weinstock , who is rumored to have connections in the narcotics underworld; Doyle and Russo allude to a drug shipment from Mexico bankrolled by Weinstock. Doyle and Russo roust a bar in their precinct, where the majority of the black patrons are in possession of marijuana and other minor drugs. The rousting is a stunt for Doyle to connect with an informant, whom he questions about an apparent shortage of hard drugs on the street; Doyle is told that a major shipment of heroin is on its way. The detectives convince their supervisor, Walt Simonson , to wiretap the Bocas' phones and use several ruses to try to obtain more information. The film centers on three main points: the criminals' efforts to smuggle drugs into the United States, which is made easier when Charnier dupes his friend, a French actor named Henri Devereaux , into importing an automobile  and the sale of the drugs to Weinstock and Sal Boca; the efforts of Doyle and Russo to shadow Boca and Charnier; and the conflicts the detectives have with Simonson and a federal agent named Mulderig , assigned to the case due to the wiretap. Doyle and Mulderig dislike each other; Russo and Doyle feel they can handle the bust without the government's help, and Mulderig criticizes Doyle on items ranging from trivialities like Doyle's appearance to an incident where a policeman was killed and Mulderig holds Doyle responsible. Doyle comes to blows with Mulderig. Weinstock's chemist  tests a sample of the heroin and declares it the purest he has ever seen, establishing that the shipment could make as much as $32 million on a half-million dollar investment. Boca is impatient to make the purchase , while Weinstock, with more experience in smuggling, urges patience, knowing Boca's phone is tapped and that they are being investigated. Charnier soon "makes" Doyle and realizes he has been observed since his arrival in New York. Nicoli offers to kill Doyle; Charnier objects, knowing killing one policeman will not amount to anything, but Nicoli says they will be in France before they can be detained. Nicoli attempts to assassinate Doyle, but botches the job, leading to a car chase scene that culminates with Nicoli's hijacking an elevated train. Nicoli, after killing a policeman who was pursuing him, holds the driver at gunpoint. Near the end of the line Nicoli is confronted by passengers and the motorman passes out. The train reaches the end of the line and is halted by a safety mechanism on the tracks. Nicoli escapes the train and Doyle shoots him when he attempts to escape. The car containing the drugs is impounded when some thieves try to strip it of its valuables. Doyle and Russo take the car apart searching for drugs. When Russo notes the vehicle is 120 pounds over its listed weight, they realize the drugs must still be in the car. The mechanic tells them he did not remove the car's rocker panels; when he does, the drugs are discovered. The police later return the car to Devereaux, seemingly untouched. It seems as though the drug deal has been a major success; Weinstock's chemist tests one of the bags and confirms its quality. Using a car that Sal Boca's brother Lou  picked out, the criminals conceal the money. The car is to be imported into France, where Charnier will retrieve the money. Charnier and Sal Boca drive off, but run into a roadblock consisting of a large force of police led by Doyle. The police chase Charnier and Sal Boca to an old factory. Sal is killed during a shootout with the police and almost all of the others surrender. Charnier escapes into the warehouse and Doyle hunts for him. Russo joins in the search. Doyle, trigger-happy and high on adrenaline, sees a shadowy figure in the distance and empties his revolver at it a split-second after shouting a warning. The man Doyle kills is not Charnier, but Mulderig. Doyle seems unfazed and vows to capture Charnier, reloading his gun and running into another room. The last sound heard in the film is a single gunshot.  Title cards before the closing credits note that Joel Weinstock and Angie Boca got away without prison time while Lou Boca got a reduced sentence and Devereaux served four years. Charnier was never caught. Both Doyle and Russo were transferred out of the narcotics division and reassigned.Nick Lanzetta  takes out several members of a rival crime family for his boss Don Corrasco . The enemy clan attempts retribution by kidnapping an associate's daughter, who turns out to be a nymphomaniac. A violent power struggle within the Mafia ensures.The film is based on the true story of a missing Australian child, Stephen Walls . After his disappearance,a massive search is organized across the Guyra area as its citizens spring into action. The problem in finding Stephen is that he was taught to not speak to strangers, and is afraid of those who attempt to speak to him. He does not know that the crowds of people attempting to make contact are not enemies, but have volunteered to find him. Four days elapse and hope of his rescue diminishes. A group of searchers finally spot the boy and are able to convince him that they are there to help him get back home to his family.Philippe Douvier, on the outside a respected business man, but secretly the leader of the French Connection, is facing a falling out with their New York Mafia drug trading partners because they believe him not capable of properly conducting business. To demonstrate otherwise, Douvier's aide Guy Algo suggests to have the man killed who is currently presenting the greatest danger to their trade: Chief Inspector Jacques Clouseau—a plan which Douvier sanctions after some consideration. Douvier's attempt to blow Clouseau up with a bomb fails, and the subsequent attempt by a Chinese martial artist called Mr. Chong  is thwarted when Clouseau accidentally knocks him out of a window, believing him to be his  valet Cato, who had orders to keep his employer alert by means of random attacks. That night, Douvier anonymously calls Clouseau and poses as an informant to tell him the whereabouts of an important criminal involved in the French Connection. Despite being warned by Cato that it has to be a trap, Clouseau—concluding that it is so obvious that it couldn't possibly be a trap—drives toward the location, but his car and clothes are stolen at gunpoint by a transvestite criminal named Claude Rousseau . Rousseau drives into the trap and is killed by Douvier's men. Subsequently the majority of people believe Clouseau to be dead and, as a result of this assumption, Clouseau's mad boss, ex-Commissioner Charles Dreyfus , is deemed sane and is to be released from the Mental Asylum to try to crack the case, while Douvier's plans continue. In Rousseau's clothes, Clouseau is taken to the mental asylum , but escapes into Dreyfus' room. Dreyfus faints at the sight of Clouseau, whom he believed dead, whereupon Clouseau disguises himself as Dreyfus and is driven home in a car by operative François. At home, Clouseau finds Cato, who  is relieved to see him alive. Having settled Clouseau's initial anger at Cato, the two plan their revenge on the person who ordered Clouseau's assassination, taking advantage of the belief that Clouseau is dead to conduct their investigations. Dreyfus, led to believe that the man he saw was Claude Rousseau, is assigned to read a eulogy at Clouseau's funeral. His objections are overridden by political necessity when it is revealed that the speech was composed by the police chief's wife, who was apparently fond of Clouseau. During the recital, Dreyfus is unable to control his laughter at the statements he is obliged to speak, but conceals his amusement by giving the impression that he is weeping rather than laughing. But when Clouseau surreptitiously reveals himself among the attendants of the funeral, Dreyfus faints into the burial pit moments before the master of ceremonies completes his oration. Shortly after his wife threatens him with a divorce, Douvier, needing her respectability and her silence pertaining to his crimes, tells his secretary/paramour Simone LeGree  that their courtship must end. Angry, Simone storms out of Douvier's office. Because she was quite intimately involved in his business, Douvier gives orders to have Simone killed at a nightclub called Le Club Phut . Having been told by a seafaring informant  of the possibility of trouble at the nightclub, Clouseau and Cato investigate and accidentally save Simone from being murdered by Douvier's assassins; Simone takes Clouseau  home. At Simone's flat, Clouseau tells Simone that he is the supposedly dead Chief Inspector; although Simone does not believe him at first, he eventually convinces her of the truth, prompting her to reveal that Douvier ordered Clouseau's assassination as part of his attempt to impress the American Godfather. When another duo of assassins force their way in, Clouseau and Simone escape into the flat below, in which lives Dreyfus. Dreyfus overhears Simone telling Clouseau of Douvier's plans to meet with the New York Mafia Godfather, Julio Scallini, in Hong Kong, but again faints when he sees Clouseau. Clouseau, Cato, and Simone travel from Paris to Hong Kong and tail Douvier, unaware that Dreyfus has also arrived. Clouseau impersonates Scallini, while Simone distracts the real Scallini so that Clouseau can uncover Douvier's plans. He succeeds, but the plan goes awry when Clouseau's disguise is exposed. A car chase begins, terminating in a crash at the Hong Kong docks. Here, Dreyfus recognizes Clouseau, loses his mind again and tries to kill Clouseau, chasing him into a firework warehouse. Inside, Dreyfus inadvertently sets the stored fireworks alight, and the resulting explosions sow chaos between all the participants, which eventually leads to the arrests of Douvier and Scallini. Clouseau is awarded for their arrest by the President of France. Thereafter, he and Simone spend an evening together.In the mid-1870s, outlaws Jesse James, Cole Younger and their brothers are granted amnesty by the Missouri legislature, sympathetic to the troubles created for all citizens by the Civil War. The bankers victimized by the James and Younger gangs are vehemently opposed to this action and hire a Pinkerton agent to follow the outlaws' every move. Younger has put aside plans to rob a bank in Northfield, Minnesota, said to be the largest west of the Mississippi River. The job appeals, however, to Jesse and Frank James, who have no intention of changing the way they make a living. Cole is ambushed by the Pinkerton's agent men, who use a prostitute as bait. And when the bankers succeed in overturning the amnesty by bribing the politicians, Cole travels by train to Minnesota to check out the bank. Once there, Cole discovers that townspeople are unwilling to risk placing their money in the bank due to concerns over its safety from thieves. Jesse, Frank, and their men arrive on horseback and, together with Cole, persuade the locals that a gold shipment is on its way, being delivered to the bank because it is supposed to be the safest possible place for it. Once the citizens begin banking their money, the robbery commences. Many things go wrong though, including one outlaw being locked inside a vault. Younger and his men flee to a nearby farm, but a posse tracks and apprehends them. The James brothers get away. But, when Jesse mentions to Frank his intention to permit Bob Ford to join the gang back in Missouri, his fate is sealed.In London in the year 1907, a British aristocrat named Sir Anthony Ross  hastily arranges an expedition to the Arctic to search for his lost son Donald. Donald had become lost on a whaling expedition to find the fabled island where whales go to die. Sir Anthony employs the talents of a Scandinavian-American archaeologist Professor Ivarsson ([[David Hartman  and Captain Brieux , a French inventor/aeronaut who pilots the expedition in a French dirigible named the Hyperion, which Captain Brieux invented. Upon reaching the Arctic, they meet Oomiak, a comically cowardly/brave Eskimo friend of Donald's, and trick him into helping them join in the search. Ultimately, the expedition becomes  separated from Captain Brieux, and discovers an uncharted island named Astragard, occupied by a lost civilization of Vikings, cut off from the rest of the world for centuries. The Vikings capture Sir Anthony and Ivarsson, but Oomiak escapes. Shortly thereafter they find Donald, but are nearly put to death by the fanatic Godi , a sort-of Lawspeaker/Soothsayer authority figure. The three men  are saved from being burned alive by a brave and beautiful Viking girl named Freyja, with whom Donald is deeply and mutually in love. They escape, and are rejoined by Oomiak and eventually find the Whales Graveyard, but are attacked by Killer Whales. Here they are saved by the sudden reappearance of Captain Brieux, but they are still being pursued by the angry Godi and his rather unwilling warriors. Finally, the Godi is killed by the explosion when he shoots a fiery arrow at the Hyperion, but the Vikings will not let the expedition return to their world unless one of them remains behind as a hostage. Ivarsson however, willingly volunteers to stay, because this is a chance to live history. Ivarsson also points out that if someday Mankind is ever foolish enough to destroy itself, places like Astragard may become humanity's final refuge. And so, Sir Anthony, Donald, Freyja, Captain Brieux and Oomiak, are allowed to depart in peace, promising not to tell the Outside World about Astragard. As Ivarsson heads back to Astragard, he turns to look back just in time before his four friends move further away into the Antartic mist.Escaping from China with a microfilm of the formula for the mysterious "Lotus X", Lord Southmere, a Queen's Messenger, is chased by a group of Chinese spies. Back in London, Lord Southmere manages to escape from a chauffeur who is trying to kidnap him, and then runs into the Natural History Museum. Chinese spies follow him, so he hides the microfilm in the bones of one of the large dinosaur skeletons. He is relieved to meet his former nanny, Hettie, in the museum, and asks her to retrieve the microfilm. Southmere then faints and is captured by the Chinese, who tell Hettie and Emily  that they are taking him to a doctor. Hettie and Emily enlist other nannies to help them search. They hide in the mouth of the blue whale display until after closing time and then begin looking over the skeleton of an Apatosaurus . They are unsuccessful, and most have to return home to care for their children, but Hettie, Emily and their friend Susan remain to continue with the search. They are captured and taken to the spies' London headquarters, underneath a Chinese restaurant in Soho. The nannies are locked up in the 'dungeon', with Lord Southmere. Fortunately, the nannies are able to outwit their captors and escape. Meanwhile, the spies have decided to steal the dinosaur, so they can search it properly. That night, they trick their way into the museum. The three nannies follow on a motorbike and sidecar and watch from the shadows. After the Chinese load the Apatosaurus skeleton on the back of their steam lorry, the nannies steal the vehicle. The spies give chase through the foggy streets of London in their charabanc and a Daimler limousine, but the nannies drive into a railway goods yard, onto a flat wagon at the back of a train, and are carried off to safety. The nannies fail to find the microfilm on the skeleton. Meanwhile, back in London, Hettie's two young charges, Lord Castlebury and his younger brother, Truscott, have been captured by the spies. They are taken to the museum and the chief spy retrieves the microfilm from the other large dinosaur, a Diplodocus skeleton. The two boys are allowed home and tell Nanny Hettie the news. Realising that Lord Southmere is now in danger, Hettie organises a rescue. Hettie and her team of nannies invade the Chinese restaurant base and battle with the spies over Lord Southmere. Meanwhile, Emily and Susan return with the Apatosaurus and the lorry and bring the fight sequence to a shattering conclusion. Everything ends well and the secret of the mysterious "Lotus X" is finally revealed.{{plot}} Three English gentlemen - Hargood, Paxton and Secker - have formed a circle ostensibly devoted to charitable work but in reality they indulge themselves in brothels. One night they are intrigued by a young man who bursts into the brothel and is immediately tended to after snapping his fingers, despite the brothelkeeper's objections. The gentlemen are informed that he is Courtley, who was disinherited for celebrating a Black Mass. Hoping for more intense pleasures, Hargood meets Courtley outside the brothel. The younger man takes the three to the Cafe Royal and promises them experiences they will never forget but insists that they come to see Weller and purchase from him Dracula's ring, cloak and dried-up blood. The three meet with Courtley at an abandoned Church for a ceremony during which he puts the dried blood into goblets and mixes it with drops of his own blood, telling the gentlemen to drink. As they refuse, he drinks the blood himself, screams and falls to the ground. As he grabs the gentlemen's legs, they kick and beat him with increasing vigour - not stopping until Courtley dies, at which they flee in disgust at what they have done. While the three return to their respective homes and get on with their lives, Courtley's body, left in the abandoned church, transforms into Dracula, who vows that those who have destroyed his servant will be destroyed. Dracula begins his revenge with Hargood, who has begun to drink heavily and also treats his daughter Alice harshly, furious that she continues to see Paul, Paxton's son. Dracula takes control of Alice's mind via hypnosis and as her drunken father chases after her, she picks up a shovel and kills him. The next day, Hargood is found dead and Alice is missing. The police inspector in charge of the case refuses to investigate Alice's disappearance. At the funeral, Alice hovers behind bushes and attracts the attention of Paul's sister Lucy, telling her to meet her that night. They enter the abandoned church where Alice introduces her to a dark figure. Lucy assumes him to be Alice's lover but she is greeted by Dracula, who turns her into a vampire. With Hargood dead and Alice and Lucy missing, Paxton fears that Courtley is exacting revenge and, together with Secker, visits the abandoned church to check for Courtley's corpse. The body is missing but they discover Lucy asleep in a coffin with marks on her throat. Secker realizes she is a vampire and tries to stake her, but Paxton shoots him in the arm, forcing him to flee. While Secker stumbles his way home, Paxton weeps over his daughter's body. When he finally develops the courage to stake Lucy himself, she awakens, and Dracula appears. Alice and Lucy pin Paxton down and drive a wooden stake through his chest. That night, Secker's son Jeremy sees Lucy, his lover, at his window and comes down to see her. She sinks her fangs into his throat, enslaving him while Dracula watches. The vampire Jeremy then stabs his father on Lucy's orders. On the way back to the church, Lucy begs for Dracula's approval but instead he drains her dry and leaves her destroyed. Back at the church, he prepares to bite Alice but a cock crows and he returns to his coffin. The dead body of Secker causes Jeremy's arrest, the police inspector assumes that he hated his father and stabbed him in a rage. Paul disagrees but the inspector refuses to listen. He hands Paul a letter - "the ramblings of a lunatic" he calls it - in which Secker instructs Paul on how to fight the vampires. Following Secker's instructions, Paul makes his way to the abandoned church. He finds Lucy's exsanguinated body en route, floating in a lake. At the church he bars the door with a large cross and clears the altar of Black Mass instruments, replacing them with the proper materials. He calls for Alice, who appears together with Dracula. Paul confronts Dracula with a cross but Alice, still entranced, disarms him. She seeks Dracula's approval but he dismisses her. He tries to leave but is prevented by the cross barring the door. His retreat is also barred by a cross which an angry and disappointed Alice threw to the floor. Dracula climbs the balcony and throws items at Paul and Alice. However, he backs into a stained glass window depicting a cross. He breaks the glass but suddenly sees the changed surroundings and hears the Lord's Prayer recited in Latin. Dazzled, Dracula falls to the altar, and dissolves back into dust. The surviving young couple run ...Joseph  travels through a dream-like world, taking a dilapidated train to visit his dying father, Jacob, in a sanatorium. When he arrives at the hospital, he finds the entire facility is going to ruin and no one seems to be in charge or even caring for the patients. Time appears to behave in unpredictable ways, reanimating the past in an elaborate artificial caprice. Though Joseph is always shown as an adult, his behavior and the people around often depict him as a child. He befriends Rudoph, a young boy who owns a postage stamp album. The names of the stamps trigger in Joseph a wealth of association and adventure. Among the many occurrences in this visually potent phantasmagoria include Joseph re-entering childhood episodes with his wildly eccentric father , being arrested by a mysterious unit of soldiers for having a dream that was severely criticized in high places, reflecting on a girl he fantasized about in his boyhood and commandeering a group of historic wax mannequins. Throughout his strange journey, an ominous blind train conductor reappears like a death figure. Has also adds a series of reflections on the Holocaust that were not present in the original texts, reading Schulz's prose through the prism of the author's death during World War II and the demise of the world he described.The film is the tale of a noble swordsman and a one-armed swordswoman who find themselves up against the evil Crimson Charm gang of thieves and thugs.Set in a small Australian town between world wars, the film follows the battle between two children, Scott, a poor farm boy, and Josie, the handicapped daughter of a wealthy ranch owner, for ownership of a horse that both children love.<ref name Dresser | first  | title  Toldedo Blade | location  16 | language  | date  http://news.google.com.au/newspapers?idQwIEAAAAIBAJ&pgride-a-wild-pony&hl 2010-04-25}}  Scott requires a horse to ride seven miles to school today and his father buys an unbroken pony, which Scott names Taff. Josie yearns to ride again but, being crippled, must settle on the use of a cart and pony. Scott's pony disappears, while a pony is eventually selected for Josie from her father's herd. When Scott sees the horse, which Josie named Bo, performing in the pony and cart competition at the township fair, he recognizes it as his horse and attempts to take it away.<ref name Waxse | first  | title  The Milwaukee Journal | location  72 | language  | date  http://news.google.com.au/newspapers?idMSkEAAAAIBAJ&pgride-a-wild-pony&hl 2010-04-25}}  The ensuing quarrel affects both the children as well as dividing the town.<ref name | first  | title  The New York Times | location  | language  | date  http://movies.nytimes.com/movie/review?res 2010-02-05}}  The children eventually become friends and, while the ownership issue is legally resolved, they agree on a way of sharing the pony between them.In 1962, college freshmen Lawrence "Larry" Kroger  and Kent Dorfman  seek to join a fraternity at Faber College. They visit the prestigious Omega Theta Pi House's invitational party but are not welcomed there. They then try next door at Delta Tau Chi House, where Kent's brother was once a member, making Kent a "legacy." There they find John "Bluto" Blutarsky  urinating outside the fraternity house. The Deltas "need the dues" so they permit Larry and Kent to pledge. They receive the fraternity names "Pinto"  and "Flounder" . Vernon Wormer , dean of Faber College, wants to remove the Delta fraternity from campus due to repeated conduct violations and low academic standing. Since they are already on probation, he puts the Deltas on something he calls "double secret probation" and orders the clean-cut, smug Omega president Greg Marmalard  to find a way to get rid of the Deltas permanently. Flounder is bullied by Omega member and ROTC cadet commander Doug Neidermeyer , so Bluto and Daniel Simpson "D-Day" Day  persuade Flounder to sneak Neidermeyer's horse into Dean Wormer's office late at night. They give him a gun and tell him to shoot it. Unbeknownst to Flounder, the gun is loaded with blanks. Unable to bring himself to kill the horse, he fires into the ceiling. The noise frightens the horse so much that it dies of a heart attack. In the cafeteria the next day, smooth-talking Eric "Otter" Stratton  tries to convince the stuck-up Mandy Pepperidge  to abandon her boyfriend, the uninterested Marmalard, and date him instead. Bluto proceeds to provoke Marmalard with his impression of a popping zit by stuffing his mouth with mashed potatoes and propelling it at Marmalard and table mates, Chip Diller  and Barbara "Babs" Jansen . Bluto then starts a food fight that engulfs the cafeteria. Bluto and D-Day steal the answers to an upcoming psychology test, but it turns out the Omegas planted the exam stencil and the Deltas get every answer wrong. Their grade-point averages drop so low that Wormer only needs one more incident to revoke the charter that allows them to remain on campus. To cheer themselves up, the Deltas organize a toga party, during which Otis Day and the Knights perform "Shout". The dean's alcoholic, lecherous wife, Marion , attends the party at Otter's invitation and has sex with him. Pinto hooks up with Clorette , a girl he met at the supermarket, and makes out with her only to learn she is the mayor's 13-year-old daughter. He later brings her home in a shopping cart. Due to the party, Wormer organizes a kangaroo court with the Omegas and revokes Delta's charter and all belongings are confiscated. To take their minds off their troubles, Otter, Donald "Boon" Schoenstein , Flounder and Pinto go on a road trip. Otter picks up some girls from Emily Dickinson College by pretending to be the fiancé of Fawn Liebowitz, a girl who recently died on campus. They stop at a roadhouse because Otis Day and the Knights are performing there, not realizing that it caters to an exclusively black clientele. The hulking patrons intimidate the guys and they flee, damaging Flounder's borrowed car and leaving their frightened dates behind. Boon breaks up with his girlfriend Katy  after discovering her sexual relationship with a professor . Marmalard is told that his girlfriend is having an affair with Otter, so he and other Omegas lure him to a motel and beat him up. The Deltas' midterm grades are so poor that an ecstatic Wormer expels them all. He even notifies their draft boards of their eligibility. In the process, before Bluto attempts to speak to the dean, Wormer orders Flounder to speak with the words, "Well? Out with it!", whereupon Flounder vomits on the dean. It seems time for the Deltas to give up but Bluto, supported by the injured Otter, rouses them with an impassioned, historically inaccurate speech  and they decide to take revenge on Wormer and the Omegas. The Deltas construct a rogue parade float with Flounder's car as its base and wreak havoc on the annual homecoming parade. During the ensuing chaos, the futures of many of the main characters are revealed. The last shot of the film is of Bluto driving away in a white convertible with his soon-to-be wife: Mandy Pepperidge.Frank is the ambitious son of an organized-crime boss. He plans a heroin deal with the help of brothers Tony and Vince, but a snitch tips off the cops. After the death of his father, a mob war breaks out between two rival families. One is run by Don Angelo, but he does not get the support of the brothers, Tony and Vince, and must seek power through other means. He begins a romance with Frank's young and beautiful fiancee, Ruby, which sends Frank into a self-destructive rage.The film starts with Nick Galver having a nightmare: a military pilot intentionally switching off his transponder signal is intruding into the airspace of civilian flights Nick is controlling, causing an air collision. He wakes up terrified and his wife Betsy advises him to see a doctor, and to find a less stressful job. Nick, an LA Air Traffic Controller, in his late 50s, feels trapped in his job. The stress is affecting his mental and physical health. He is driven to prove himself despite his years. His nightmare turns real as he experiences the an accident similar to his dream. After the incident, the civilian flight passengers are all dead, and the military pilot has bailed out, survived, and is lying during the inquiry. As a final hearing approaches, Nick’s career is in danger. He smokes and drinks coffee incessantly, and begins to take pills to calm his nerves. There follows a confrontation with the authorities employee charged with the inquiry who is trying to frame him believing the accident was the Air Traffic Control’s mistake but Nick replies back to him that it is because this employee was a previously rejected Controller of the service that he tries to retaliate picking on him. The stress continues at work. A young Controller, Donovan, is posted to LA after some service in Chicago and he will be his instructor. The two generations clash each other strongly. The young is more relaxed and not conscious of the particular difficulties he may face while the older and experienced knows that any moment can produce a situation that pushes adrenaline to its highest. There is also a young lady cadet controller that is not fit for the job; she nearly arrives to produce a collision saved last minute by Nick who grabbed the microphone himself to save the situation while his face reflects his tremendous anxiety. The climax of stress arrives with the psychologist Dr. Denver who is appointed by the Head of the Civil Aviation Authority in LA to watch closely the controllers as some of them are reported to have problems and there is fear for consequences on the air safety. His presence increases the stress as everyone knows that if detected to be mentally unstable he will lose his job. Nick explains to him all the tricks of the trade and why even rules have to bend to allow traffic to keep on going instead of queuing for long periods on the ground. The accumulated anxiety will push his wife to abandon their home while the hearing day approaches. In the mean time an aerodrome worker that became insane after a cab driver killed his child is searched by the police and while trying to escape armed in a bus he destroys the radar installations. In the operations room the Controllers will have to continue without radar using their memory and information on paper strips alone. At this crucial moment he works together with Donovan who does handle the case successfully supported by the strength of his youth. Nick is then informed that Betsy is on a flight already in the air at this moment that experiences an engine failure and has to land immediately. In the chaos created Nick trusts Donovan on the controlling position and he rushes himself in the airfield to provide help. The bus with the insane armed worker blocks the runway but Nick gets on the bus neutralizing him and drives the bus away clearing the runway while the landing plane is missing it by inches. Betsy returns to his arms after escaping the danger and at this moment the administration employee comes and tells him that after a technical check the pilot was blamed for switching off his device, therefore Nick is ‘off the hook’. Nick then turns to Betsy promising to quit his post and return to a normal life.Crisis in Mid-Air at Fabianforte.netMike Di Donato, an Italian-American man with a mysterious past, leads a solitary life in an anonymous sea island. His unusual work is the hunting of sharks, from which his partner derives handicrafts for the local market.  Everything appears normal, until the arrival of several men of an unidentified organization in search of an unreachable booty of one hundred million dollars. Mike would be the only man able to retrieve it, but he is not willing to cooperate.{{cite book}}The movie focuses on the actions of a revolutionary movement. One faction, with a leader called October, breaks into a US weapons depot and takes cases of hand bombs. While escaping several soldiers are killed and October is blinded by the blast from a mishandled case of bombs. The movement's highest authority deems October unfit and sends Winter's February, leader of another faction, to take October's remaining bombs through any means necessary. This causes October and his soldiers to undergo a shift in their approach. One by one, the members start to take matters into their own hands.The film is narrated by the rooster Alan-a-Dale, who explains that Robin Hood and Little John live in Sherwood Forest, robbing from the rich and giving to the poor townsfolk of Nottingham. The Sheriff of Nottingham and his posse often try to catch the two but fail every time. Meanwhile, Prince John and his assistant Sir Hiss, arrive in Nottingham. Sir Hiss hypnotised Prince John's brother King Richard to go off on the Crusades, allowing Prince John to take the throne. Unfortunately, the prince is greedy and immature, even sucking his thumb whenever his mother is mentioned. Robin and Little John rob Prince John by disguising themselves as fortune tellers, prompting the prince to put a bounty on their heads and makes the Sheriff his personal tax collector. The Sheriff taxes Friar Tuck and a family of rabbits. However, Robin gives back some money to the rabbits, giving his hat and archery kit to the young rabbit Skippy for his birthday. Skippy and his friends test out the archery kit, but Skippy fires an arrow into the grounds of Maid Marian's castle. The children sneak inside, meeting Maid Marian and her attendant Lady Kluck. Maid Marian reveals she and Robin were childhood sweethearts but they have not seen one another for years. Friar Tuck visits Robin and Little John, explaining that Prince John is hosting an archery tournament, and the winner will receive a kiss from Maid Marian. Robin agrees to participate in the tournament disguised as a stork whilst Little John disguises himself as the Duke of Chutney to get near Prince John. Sir Hiss discovers Robin's identity but is trapped in a barrel of ale by Friar Tuck and Alan-a-Dale. Robin wins the tournament, but Prince John exposes him and has him arrested for execution despite Maid Marian's pleas. Little John threatens Prince John leading to a fight between Robin, Little John, Maid Marian, Lady Kluck and Prince John's soldiers. In the forest, Robin and Maid Marian fall in love again as the townsfolk mock Prince John, describing him as the "Phony King of England". Enraged by the insult, Prince John triples the taxes, imprisoning most of the townsfolk who cannot pay their taxes. The Sheriff visits Friar Tuck's church to steal from the poor box, enraging Friar Tuck who is arrested too. Prince John plans to hang Friar Tuck to lure in Robin and kill him. Robin and Little John sneak in, managing to free all of the prisoners whilst Robin steals Prince John's taxes, but Sir Hiss awakens to find Robin fleeing. Chaos follows as Robin and the others try to escape to Sherwood Forest. The Sheriff corners Robin, setting fire to Prince John's castle, whilst Robin leaps from a tower into a pool of water below. Little John and Skippy watch as the pool is pelted with arrows and Robin is apparently shot, only for him to emerge unharmed. Prince John despairs and is driven into a blind rage when Sir Hiss points out his mother's castle is on fire. King Richard returns to England, placing his brother and his cohorts under arrest and allows Robin and Maid Marian to be married and leave Nottingham with Little John and Skippy in tow.A lonely boy named Danny Garrison befriends Ben, the rat leader of the swarm of trained/telepathic rats found in Willard. Ben becomes the boy's best friend, protecting him from bullying and keeping his spirits up in the face of a heart condition. However, things gradually take a downward turn as Ben's swarm becomes violent, resulting in several deaths. Eventually, the police destroy the rat colony with flame throwers, but Ben survives and makes his way back to Danny. The film closes with Danny, tending to the injured Ben, determined not to lose his friend.The film is an inside look at the world of co-ed Roller Derby, then a popular league sport. The story focuses on K.C. Carr  who has just left her former team in Kansas City, Missouri to start her life as a single mother over again in Portland, Oregon with a team called the Portland Loggers. Loggers' owner Burt Henry  is clearly interested in her, and K.C. and Burt date. But Burt has a rather ruthless side to him: he trades away K.C.'s best friend on the team, and when he sees that star male skater "Horrible" Hank Hopkins is interested in her, he manipulates the audience into booing Hopkins, causing him to go crazy and lose his job. Henry's endgame is to set up a match race between K.C. and her teammate and rival Jackie Burdette , with K.C. deliberately losing so that she can join Henry at a new team he's setting up in Chicago. But K.C. doesn't trust Henry anymore  and wins the match race.Classical pianist Robert Dupea , who comes from a family of musicians, works in a California oil field. Most of his time is spent in bowling alleys, drinking beer in the trailer of his friend, Elton , or with his waitress girlfriend, Rayette . When he learns that she is pregnant, and his friend Elton gets arrested for having robbed a gas station a year earlier, he quits his job and leaves for Los Angeles where his sister, Partita , also a pianist, is making a recording. Partita informs him that their father has suffered two strokes and urges him to return to the family home on Puget Sound. He tells Rayette that he must go to see his father and reluctantly agrees to take her along. On the way, they pick up two lesbians headed for Alaska whose constant chatter about "filth" increasingly annoys Robert. The four of them are thrown out of a restaurant when he gets into an argument with a waitress who refuses to accommodate his special order. Eventually, Robert reaches his destination. Embarrassed by Rayette's lack of polish, he registers her in a motel and goes to his family home. At dinner that night, he meets Catherine Van Oost , a young pianist engaged to his brother, Carl , a violinist. Despite personality differences, Robert and Catherine become attracted to each other and make love in her room. Meanwhile, Rayette becomes bored at the motel and comes to the Dupea estate unannounced. Her presence creates an awkward situation, but when Samia, a pompous family friend, ridicules Rayette's background, Robert gives a fiery defense of her. Storming from the room in search of Catherine, he discovers his father's male nurse giving the half-naked Partita a massage. Even more angered, Robert picks a senseless fight with him and is quickly knocked to the floor. He tries to convince Catherine to go away with him, but she tells him she cannot do it because he does not love himself or anything at all and thus should not expect love in return. After trying to talk to his unresponsive father, Robert leaves with Rayette, who makes a playful sexual advance to him which he angrily pushes off. At a gas station, when Rayette goes in for some coffee, he abandons her, hitching a ride on a truck to Alaska.After the end of the Civil War, Confederate army captain Justice Cain  retires from the military. He becomes a farmer and lives a peaceful life with his son, Jody  and his new wife, Angie , the biracial ex-slave of Cain's former father-in-law. Unbeknownst to Cain, a group of six soldiers previously under Cain's command , Ameson , Billy-Joe , Tucker , Farrette , Mason, and Crawford, has recently been released from a Union prison. The former Confederate soldiers have become a roving band of homicidal highway robbers, and their ultimate goal is to re-form a squadron led by Cain and renew attacks upon Union targets. The men find Cain and tell him of their plans, but when Cain refuses to join them, tells them that the "Old South" is dead, and derides their unrealistic plan to attack the north, they become enraged, attack him, and tie him up. Ameson, the leader of the group, rapes Angie while Cain watches helplessly. Billy-Joe, the most deranged and volatile of the men, attempts to rape her afterwards, but she fights him off. Fuming about what he perceives as Angie's sexual "rejection" of him, Billy-Joe kills her. Cain then screams insults at Billy-Joe, who shoots both Cain and Jody, killing the little boy instantly. Realizing that Billy-Joe's uncontrollable rage has set them on the path of no return, the men attempt to cover their tracks by burning down Cain's farm, but they leave unaware that Cain is still alive. With the help of Preacher Simms , a bible-quoting bounty hunter, and Rita , a former prostitute , Cain systematically tracks down and kills the men. However, Cain becomes increasingly sadistic with each killing, and Simms begins to question whether Cain is more interested in achieving justice or indulging his own bloodlust. After killing most of the men, Cain finds Billy-Joe and shoots him in the crotch several times, so that he dies a slow, excruciatingly painful death. This disgusts Simms and Rita, and they abandon Cain. Cain then sets out alone to kill Ameson, the last surviving member of the gang. However, Ameson is captured by Union soldiers and executed by firing squad before Cain can reach him. Cain, now alone in the world and robbed of the satisfaction of killing the man who raped his wife, sinks to the ground and weeps in despair.Twenty-two years after his initiation into a secret society known as the "Brotherhood of the Bell" or "the Bell," Dr. Andrew  Patterson  is requested to be the "senior" of a new initiate, Phillip Everest Dunning . The initiation takes place in "the secret chamber of the bell" in the Beta Epsilon Lambda fraternity house of St. George College in San Francisco at sunrise. Patterson is coldly greeted by the house proctor Weber, who directs him to the library where he meets his "senior" Chad Harmon  of San Francisco, a member for forty years. The initiation takes place before a large bell in the center of points of the compass depicted on the floor. Phillip Dunning had been studying the articles and letters of the brotherhood since midnight. He is then instructed by Harmon to give them to him to be destroyed. He is sworn to secrecy, and he takes his appropriate place at the due east compass point with Harmon at the south point, Patterson at the west point, and Weber at the north point. He is reminded that he will be given an assignment or "due bill" at some indeterminate time in the future, and instructed that he is obliged to carry it out without question. The four men recite the oath of loyalty and secrecy and end by tolling the bell. As they leave the fraternity house Chad Harmon gives Patterson a business card with an address written on it, telling him to stop by there before he takes the return flight to Los Angeles. In a parting conversation with his new junior Phillip Dunning, he makes the point of telling him that they are not only part of the establishment but "the" establishment. Patterson arrives at the address on the business card to find that it is a mansion that is probably unoccupied—the furniture in the parlor he goes to is covered with dust sheets. A tall gray-haired man asks him for the card, and hands him two envelopes. A legal envelope contains the assignment, and a large manila envelope contains materials that assist in carrying out the assignment. Patterson is told to open them one hour after leaving the mansion. Chad Harmon is then shown in his office being seated for luncheon when Patterson is ushered in. When the two of them are alone, Patterson tells Harmon his assignment: to see to it that a colleague at his institute, Dr. Constantine Horvathy , decline a deanship of the College of Linguistics in the eastern United States to which he has been appointed. The materials to assist in that assignment are photostated dossiers  of all the men and women in a Communist nation that helped him to defect to the west. Patterson is instructed to send them to the embassy of that nation if Horvathy refuses to comply. Since Horvathy is a dear friend of Patterson and his wife, Harmon tries to calm Patterson with advice to make his appeal to Horvathy on a personal level, which might eliminate the need of blackmail. Patterson summarily complies when he returns to Los Angeles by seeing Dr. Horvathy just before an evening scholarly presentation. Dr. Horvathy does not agree to comply with Patterson's request that he decline the deanship, and demands reasons why he should do so. Patterson hands him the dossiers, which terrify Horvathy into hurrying back to his apartment and committing suicide that evening. Dr. and Mrs. Vivian Patterson  are awakened by police investigating Horvathy's suicide since Patterson was the last person to talk with Horvathy. When the police leave Dr. Patterson tells his wife the real reason Horvathy committed suicide. Vivian suggests that Patterson see her father Harry Masters ([[Maurice Evans  and ask his advice. Harry Masters and Patterson meet with a Thaddeus Byrnes, whom Masters says is an agent of the "Federal Security Services" . They meet in what Byrnes calls a cover office. Byrnes persuades Patterson to surrender the papers he has, which he does. When there is no follow up, Patterson returns to the building, which also houses an ostensible office of the Federal Security Services. An Agent Shepherd  gives Patterson the astounding news that there is no agent Thaddeus Byrnes, and that there is no record of his report to the FSS with information on the Brotherhood of the Bell. Harry Masters when called by Shepherd denies having taken Patterson to see Byrnes, and tells him that Patterson is emotionally disturbed and needs to consult a psychiatrist. Coincidentally, when Patterson goes again to Harry Masters' home, he finds him in his study with a psychiatrist. Patterson ends the visit with the statement, "You're a damned liar, Harry!" Patterson then finds out that his entire branch of economics at his college must be discontinued by the Dean Dr. Jerry Fielder  due to a rash stoppage of grant money. Patterson is then "black-listed" so that he cannot acquire employment elsewhere as a professor. The strain of all of this causes Vivian and him to separate as he realizes that all he has ever had in life for the past 22 years has been given to him because he was a brother of the Bell. Patterson holds a press conference in which he discloses the existence of the Brotherhood of the Bell and his assignment from them that brought about Constantine Horvathy's death. It is denied by Chad Harmon, and the local district attorney discounts it on lack of evidence. His father Mike Patterson , who is a road construction contractor, is also ruined by a sudden audit of Patterson Construction's books. The elder Patterson suffers a stroke in a confrontation with Harry Masters and dies shortly thereafter. Dr. Patterson has now become a crusader to expose and destroy the Brotherhood of the Bell. He appears on a local television talk show hosted by Bart Harris , who conducts an on-the-air forum of people, who respond to his guests. Since Patterson alleges a conspiracy, two eccentric forum participants claim that they know all about it as something altogether different. Harris humiliates Patterson by telling him that he, too, is part of a lunatic fringe in the United States, which finds conspiracy everywhere. Patterson attacks Harris physically and is led off to jail. Help comes from an unexpected quarter when his friend Dr. Fielder bails him out of jail and has him stay at his home. He encourages Patterson to find another brother of the Bell to come forward with him. Patterson can think of no one who would do this but his own junior Phillip Dunning. He flies to San Francisco, and confronts Dunning in his dorm room early in the morning. Feeling he has failed to convince Dunning, he dejectedly returns to the airport. He is shown walking down a deserted corridor of the airport when he hears footsteps of someone running towards him. It is Dunning rushing to meet up with him to go back to Los Angeles and do what Dr. Fielder had suggested.In the dark days of World War II, the Nazi High Command ordered its scientists to create a top secret race of indestructible zombie storm troopers - un-living, unfeeling, unstoppable monstrosities that killed with their bare hands. They were known as The Death Corps. No member of this horrific SS unit was ever captured by Allied Forces - and, somewhere off the coast of Florida they have survived...The film, which claims to be a true story, sets out to detail the existence of the "Fouke Monster", a bigfoot-like creature that has reportedly been seen by residents of a small Arkansas community since the 1950s. It is described as having a foul odor, completely covered in reddish-brown hair and having 3 toes and also known by leaving tracks found in beanfields. Several locals from the small town of Fouke, Arkansas recall their stories, often appearing as themselves, claiming that the creature has killed several large hogs as well as other animals. In one scene, a kitten is shown as having been "scared to death" by the creature. The narrator informs us that while people have shot at the creature in the past, it has always managed to escape. In another scene, hunters attempt to pursue the creature with dogs, but the dogs refuse to give chase. A police constable states that while driving home one night, the creature suddenly ran across the road in front of him. In a later sequence, culled from the actual newspaper accounts inspiring the film, the creature is shown menacing a family in a remote country house. After being fired upon, the creature attacks, sending one family member to the hospital.François Perrin is a belligerent factory worker who plays football for a local amateur team, in a club owned by a rich businessman who also owns the factory where Perrin, as well as most of the population of Trincamp, works. His attitude doesn't endear him to anyone, and the situation is not helped when, at a training session, he pushes Berthier, the star and captain of the team, who demands that Perrin be expelled. Soon thereafter, he is also fired from his job, and the whole town turns against him and he is even prohibited from entering the local bar. When a drunk Berthier tries to rape a woman one night, Perrin is immediately framed for the deed, and ends up in jail after being brutalized by the police. Two months later, the Trincamp team is to participate in an important game for the France's Cup, but the bus carrying the team gets into an accident, and out of desperation to replace the injured players, Perrin is released from jail to help out the team. While on the way to the stadium, he manages to evade police and finds the rape victim and confront her. Rather than resulting in conflict, he actually finds someone who believes him, since she was not positive in her earlier identification, and she decides to investigate the testimonies that convicted Perrin, while he goes on to play and scores both of his team's goals in a very tight victory. Perrin is now the town's hero, and he uses that position and the knowledge of who did what and who made false reports to the police to plot a subtle but effective revenge on those who have wronged him.Childhood friends Billy Massey and Chuck Jarvis go in opposite directions after Chuck ends up married to Billy's former sweetheart. Billy becomes a bank robber, Chuck a lawman. But they end up joining forces against common enemies in a final showdown.The plot of the movie goes back to a similar outing the writer Sunil Gangopadhyay took in the early days of his poetic career. The story unfolds around a group of four friends, quite unlike each other and yet bonded together deeply. The four friends are all educated and come from different layers of society, but the urge to escape from the daily grinding of city forces them to go out into the land of tribes. Of the four friends, Asim , the leader of the pack, owns the car they drive in, has a cushy job, likes the company of girls and yet is very conscious of how he should be perceived by them. Sanjoy  is a labour executive but would ideally want to immerse himself in literature. Hari , a frank and straightforward cricketer, wants to forget the girl who dumped him. Shekhar  is the jester of the party, the only one without a job. He has a roving eye but stays sober when his friends get drunk and vent their frustrations. They set out for the tribal Palamau, in Bihar, to tear themselves away from their regulated city life. They had read legends about this land, the tribal women who are open and simple and beautiful. Wanting to break rules, they force a stay in a forest rest house by bribing the chowkidar, burn a copy of a newspaper in a symbolic gesture of cutting ties from civilization, deliberate on whether to shave or not and walk through the forest to get drunk at a country liquor shop. Hari gets close to tribal Santhal girl Duli  when she approaches the group for extra drink. Their resolve to be unshaven collapses when Shekhar sights two ladies Aparna  and her sister-in-law Jaya  in the forest. The four introduce themselves to this family and in the midst of the forest, the two urban groups of people are almost relieved to find someone from their part of society. Asim flirts with Aparna and coaxes her to show her room. He is attracted to the elegant and enigmatic Aparna, but is unable to keep pace with her composure, presence of mind and intelligence. Later Jaya invites all of them for breakfast the next day. At night the four friends go to drink alcohol again in the country liquor house. Hari is upset because he cannot see Duli  whom he had met previous night. While returning back to their rest house, they stumble upon a car which they shout at without realizing it as the car of Aparna. They oversleep and miss the next day's breakfast. They find a packet of food lying outside their rooms and go to Aparna's house to return it. The entire group decides to chat near the rest house while Aparna's father is away with Jaya's son for a circus. They play a memory game where each participant has to add a name to a chain of names of famous people, after repeating all the names in correct sequence. The names each player chooses reflect his/her own preference and state of mind. The game reaches a crescendo, with only Asim and Aparna left in the fray, at which point Aparna pulls out, deliberately handing victory to Asim, who seems to have placed his entire confidence at stake on the win. The tensions peak at the village fair where the four friends go their own way. Shekhar goes off to gamble with money borrowed from his friends. Hari takes Duli into the forest and makes love to her. Aparna reveals her more vulnerable side that lies behind her composed exterior. She also holds up a mirror to urban insensitivity by pointing out to Asim how despite having spent three days at the rest house, they never bothered to find out how grievously ailing was the chowkidar's wife. Sanjoy, held back by his middle class moralities, is unable to draw up courage to respond to Jaya's bold advances. Later he walks back on the lonely village road, lost in his own thoughts as twilight melts into darkness. The next morning, the four friends, each wiser than before in his own way, leave for Calcutta since their new friends have had to return in a hurry. As a parting gift, they find a can of boiled eggs sent by the thoughtful Jaya. The look of glee on Shekhar's face as the car drives off and the relieved chowkidar rushes to close the gates behind them, brings about an emphatic finish to this forest sojourn.The film is based on a short story, "A Man Called Horse", published in 1968 in the book Indian Country by Dorothy M. Johnson. Partially spoken in Sioux, the film tells the history of an English aristocrat, John Morgan, who is captured by a Native American tribe. Initially enslaved and mocked by being treated as the animal of the title, Morgan comes to respect his captors' culture and gain their respect. He is aided in understanding the Sioux by a captive, Batise, the tribe's fool, who had tried to escape and was hamstrung behind one knee. When one of the warriors takes a vow never to retreat in battle, Morgan's changing perspective is shown, as he turns angrily on the uncomprehending Batise, telling him "Five years you've lived here, and you've learned nothing about these people – all his death is to you is a means of escape." Determining that his only chance of freedom is to gain the respect of the tribe, he overcomes his repugnance and kills two warriors from another tribe, which allows him to claim warrior status. After his victory, he proposes marriage to one of the women with the horses taken in battle as dowry, and undergoes painful initiation rites, taking the native name "Horse" as his Sioux name. He becomes a respected member of the tribe and ultimately their leader.1950. After being arrested in a police raid, the two young prostitutes Lotte and Emmi are sent to the mines in Wismut. There, Germans and Soviets work together to extract Uranium for the use of the USSR. Two men fall in love with Lotte: the director Beier, a former SS man who tries to compensate for his past with hard work, and the Soviet engineer Sergei, whose wife was murdered by the Germans in the war. In the meantime, Jupp König, a veteran communist whom Emmi once harbored from the Gestapo, leads the miners as they attempt to replace their harsh and incompetent party boss, Weihrauch. Eventually, König is given Weihrauch's office. Lotte marries Beier, although she later realizes that she loves Sergei. When her husband is badly injured in an accident, he confides to the Soviet engineer that soldiers from his battalion murdered the latter's wife; Sergei replies that he knew it all along. Lotte and her baby son leave the mines and return to Berlin.In 1963 Oregon, Randle Patrick "Mac" McMurphy , a recidivist anti-authoritarian criminal serving a short sentence on a prison farm for statutory rape of a 15-year-old girl, is transferred to a mental institution for evaluation. Although he does not show any overt signs of mental illness, he hopes to avoid hard labor and serve the rest of his sentence in a more relaxed hospital environment. McMurphy's ward is run by steely, unyielding Nurse Mildred Ratched , who employs subtle humiliation, unpleasant medical treatments and a mind-numbing daily routine to suppress the patients. McMurphy finds that they are more fearful of Ratched than they are focused on becoming functional in the outside world. McMurphy establishes himself immediately as the leader; his fellow patients include Billy Bibbit , a nervous, stuttering young man; Charlie Cheswick , a man disposed to childish fits of temper; Martini , who is delusional; Dale Harding , a high-strung, well-educated paranoid; Max Taber , who is belligerent and profane; Jim Sefelt ; and "Chief" Bromden , a silent American Indian believed to be deaf and mute. McMurphy's and Ratched's battle of wills escalates rapidly. When McMurphy's card games win away everyone's cigarettes, Ratched confiscates the cigarettes and rations them out. McMurphy calls for votes on ward policy changes to challenge her. He makes a show of betting the other patients he can escape by lifting an old hydrotherapy console—a massive marble plumbing fixture—off the floor and sending it through the window; when he fails to do so, he turns to them and says, "But I tried goddammit. At least I did that." McMurphy steals a hospital bus, herds his colleagues aboard, stops to pick up Candy , a party girl, and takes the group deep sea fishing on a commandeered boat. He tells them: "You're not nuts, you're fishermen!" and they begin to feel faint stirrings of self-determination. Soon after, however, McMurphy learns that Ratched and the doctors have the power to keep him committed indefinitely. Sensing a rising tide of insurrection among the group, Ratched tightens her grip on everyone. During one of her group humiliation sessions, Cheswick's agitation boils over and he, McMurphy and the Chief wind up brawling with the orderlies. They are sent up to the "shock shop" for electroconvulsive therapy. While McMurphy and the Chief wait their turn, McMurphy offers Chief a piece of gum, and Chief murmurs "Thank you." McMurphy is delighted to find that Bromden is neither deaf nor mute, and that he stays silent to deflect attention. After the electroshock therapy, McMurphy shuffles back onto the ward feigning illness, before humorously animating his face and loudly greeting his fellow patients, assuring everyone that the ECT only charged him up all the more and that the next woman to take him on will "light up like a pinball machine and pay off in silver dollars." But the struggle with Ratched is taking its toll, and with his release date no longer a certainty, McMurphy plans an escape. He phones Candy to bring her friend Rose  and some booze to the hospital late one night. They enter through a window after McMurphy bribes the night orderly, Mr. Turkle . McMurphy and Candy invite the patients into the day room for a Christmas party; the group breaks into the drug locker, puts on music, and enjoys a bacchanalian rampage. At the end of the night, McMurphy and Bromden prepare to climb out the window with the girls. McMurphy says goodbye to everyone, and invites an emotional Billy to escape with them; he declines, saying he is not yet ready to leave the hospital—though he would like to date Candy in the future. McMurphy insists Billy have sex with Candy right then and there. Billy and Candy agree and they retire to a private room. The effects of the alcohol and pilfered medication take their toll on everyone, including McMurphy and the Chief, whose eyes slowly close in fatigue. Nurse Ratched arrives the next morning and discovers the scene: the ward completely upended and patients passed out all over the floor. She orders the attendants to lock the window, clean up, and conduct a head count. When they find Billy and Candy, the other patients applaud and, buoyed, Billy speaks for the first time without a stutter. Nurse Ratched then announces that she will tell Billy's mother what he has done. Billy panics, his stutter returns, and he starts punching himself in the face; locked in the doctor's office, he kills himself. McMurphy, enraged at Nurse Ratched, chokes her nearly to death until orderly Washington knocks him out. Some time later, the patients in the ward play cards and gamble for cigarettes as before, only now with Harding dealing and delivering a pale imitation of McMurphy's patter. Nurse Ratched, still recovering from the neck injury sustained during McMurphy's attack, wears a neck brace and speaks in a thin, reedy voice. The patients pass a whispered rumor that McMurphy dramatically escaped the hospital rather than being taken "upstairs." Late that night, Chief Bromden sees McMurphy being escorted back to his bed, and initially believes that he has returned so they can escape together, which he is now ready to do since McMurphy has made him feel "as big as a mountain." However, when he looks closely at McMurphy's unresponsive face, he is horrified to see lobotomy scars on his forehead. Unwilling to allow McMurphy to live in such a state—or be seen this way by the other patients—the Chief smothers McMurphy to death with his pillow. He then carries out McMurphy's escape plan by lifting the hydrotherapy console off the floor and hurling the massive fixture through a grated window, climbing through and running off into the distance, with Taber waking up just in time to see the Chief escape and cheering as the others awake.On Saturday, December 13, 1941 at 7:01 a.m., a woman goes swimming somewhere on the California coast, only to find a Japanese submarine surfacing beneath her. The submarine crew realizes they have arrived in Hollywood, and the vessel submerges while the woman swims to safety. Later that morning, a 10th Armored Division tank crew, consisting of Sergeant Frank Tree, Corporal Chuck Sitarski, and Privates Foley, Reese, and Henshaw, are at a restaurant where dishwasher Wally Stephens works. Wally is planning to enter a dance contest with Betty Douglas, against the wishes of her father Ward. Sitarski dislikes Wally almost immediately, and trips him. A fight ensues, leading Wally to lose his job. Later, Wally takes his friend Dennis shopping for zoot suits and steals a suit. In Death Valley, Army Air Corps Captain Wild Bill Kelso lands his Curtiss P-40 fighter near a grocery store and gas station; while refueling, Kelso accidentally blows up the station. In Los Angeles, Major General Joseph W. Stilwell attempts to bring order. At a press conferences at Daugherty Field in Long Beach, Captain Loomis Birkhead is attracted to the General's secretary Donna Stratten. He lures her into a bomber to seduce her but she knocks him out, he lands on the bomb release control, sending a bomb rolling towards the podium just as the General promises "there will be no bombs dropped here." The bomb explodes, though Stilwell escapes. That afternoon, at the Douglas family home in Santa Monica, Wally is told by Betty and her friend Maxine, both USO hostesses, that he cannot enter the USO dance that night because he is not a serviceman. Wally is forced to hide in the garage loft when Ward shows up. Soon after, Tree and his tank crew arrive to deliver an anti-aircraft battery; Sitarski spots Betty and is attracted to her. He is just about to ask Betty to go to the dance with him when Wally falls from the loft. Ward and Sitarski dump him into a garbage truck. The Japanese submarine becomes lost trying to find Los Angeles when the ship's compass is broken. A landing party captures Hollis "Holly" Wood who will only give them his name, occupation, and social security number. They see he has a small Cracker Jack compass, but he swallows it, and then escapes, hoping to find the authorities. That night, Stilwell goes to see Dumbo. Birkhead and Donna are at the 501st Bomb Disbursement Unit at Barstow, where Colonel "Mad Man" Maddox shows them the unit's aircraft. Maddox, convinced the Japanese are sending paratroops into the hills near Pomona, lets Birkhead and Donna borrow a plane, assuming they are going on a reconnaissance. Outside the USO, Sitarski kicks Wally and drags Betty into the dance. Maxine tags along. Wally sneaks in with a stolen Shore Patrol uniform, steals Betty away, and they win the dance contest whilst evading Sitarski, who is pursued by Maxine. Sitarski punches Wally, inciting a brawl. Tree arrives with his team, just as L.A. goes to Red Alert with an unknown aircraft in the air. At the Douglas' home, Ward spots the sub. As Birkhead and Donna fly over L.A., anti-aircraft batteries open fire. Kelso shoots down Birkhead's plane, then sees the submarine, only to be shot down by two spotters who mistake his plane for a Japanese fighter. Sitarski drags Betty under a tank, but Wally rescues her, knocking Sitarski out. They find Kelso, who informs them about the sub. Wearing an army uniform, Wally commandeers Tree's tank and heads toward Pacific Ocean Amusement Park. Ward begins firing at the submarine, destroying his house in the process. The submarine returns fire, hitting the ferris wheel, which careens into the ocean. The tank sinks when the pier collapses. Kelso drives a motorbike into the ocean and swims to the submarine, where he is captured by the Japanese. On Sunday morning, December 14, Stilwell arrives at the remains of the Douglas home. Tree predicts to Stilwell that 1942 will be "the 'really big' year of the war." The General simply mutters: "It's gonna be a 'long' war."A car delivery driver, Kowalski , arrives in Denver, Colorado late Friday night with a black Chrysler Imperial.{{#tag:ref|The film begins with an alternative ending. A white 1970 Dodge Challenger R/T 440 Magnum races towards two bulldozers, which have just dropped their blades blocking both lanes of a two lane road. At the last second, the driver manages to spin his car around and drive away from the roadblock. The film then goes into a flashback set two days earlier. |groupspeedtv>{{citation|urlHollywood’s Hottest Car Chases - Vanishing Point |publisherNovember 1, 2010|accessdate"transcript">{{cite web}}In the American Old West of 1874, construction on a new railroad led by Lyle  runs into quicksand. The route has to be changed, which will require it to go through Rock Ridge, a frontier town where everyone has the last name of "Johnson" . The conniving State Attorney General Hedley Lamarr  wants to buy the land along the new railroad route cheaply by driving out the townspeople. He sends a gang of thugs, led by his flunky assistant Taggart , to scare them away, prompting the townsfolk to demand that Governor William J. Le Petomane  appoint a new sheriff. The Attorney General persuades the dim-witted Le Petomane to select Bart , a black railroad worker who was about to be hanged.  Lamarr believes a black lawman will so offend the townspeople that they will either abandon Rock Ridge or lynch the new sheriff, with either result paving the way for him to take over the town. With his quick wits and the assistance of drunken gunslinger Jim , also known as "The Waco Kid" ,<ref namehttp://www.garnersclassics.com/qblazing.htm |titleGarnersclassics.com |date2012-11-01}} Bart works to overcome the townsfolk's hostile reception. He defeats and befriends Mongo , an immensely strong, slow-thinking  henchman sent by Taggart and Lyle to kill Bart, and then beats German seductress-for-hire Lili von Shtupp  at her own game. Lamarr is furious that his plans keep failing and decides to destroy Rock Ridge with a newly recruited and diverse army of thugs . Bart now has 24 hours to come up with a "brilliant plan to save our town". He gathers the town, along with the railroad workers, 3 miles east of Rock Ridge to build a fake town as a diversion. The workers labor all night to complete their task. The sun rises on a fake town that's a perfect replica, down to the orange roof on Howard Johnson's outhouse. Bart realizes the town has no people in it, so it won't fool Lamarr's villains. Bart orders the townspeople to make "exact replicas of themselves," and leaves with Jim and Mongo to execute a plan that will slow the villains "to a crawl". The three construct a tollbooth labeled "Le Petomane Thruway", requiring Taggart's crew to pay 10¢ each to pass on their horses.  Since no one in the raiding party carries either any change or the realization that nothing's stopping them from simply riding around the tollbooth, Taggarts sends someone back to town to "get a shitload of dimes". Once through the tollbooth, Lamarr's villains attack the fake town, which Bart boobytrapped with several dynamite bombs. Bart attempts to set off the bombs but is unsuccessful as the detonator he has won't work. Jim is given the task of exploding the bombs; he fires pistol shots into them. After the bombs explode, launching villains skyward, the Rock Ridgers attack the villains. The resulting fight between the townsfolk and Lamarr's army of thugs breaks the fourth wall, literally: The fight spills out from the Warner Bros. film lot into a neighboring musical set being directed by Buddy Bizarre , then into the studio commissary, where a pie fight ensues. Taggart is knocked out when Mongo smashes his head on a cash register, and the fight finally pours out into the surrounding streets . The citizens of Rock Ridge chase the villains back to town to destroy them, but Lamarr runs to the theater while Bart and Jim follow him. The film ends with Bart killing Lamarr by shooting him in the groin at the "premiere" of Blazing Saddles outside Grauman's Chinese Theatre, saving the town, and joining Jim inside the theatre to view the end of the movie, persuading people of all colors and creeds to live in harmony, before they hand in their horses and ride off  into the sunset.When San Francisco private detective Sam Spade dies, his son, Sam Spade Jr. inherits his father's agency, including the sarcastic secretary, Effie Perrine . He must also continue his father's tradition of "serving minorities." When Caspar Gutman is killed outside Spade's building, his dying words are, "It's black and as long as your arm." Spade is given an offer by a member of the Order of St. John's Hospital to purchase his father's useless copy of the Maltese Falcon. A right-wing thug named Gordon Immerman has been hired to make sure Spade delivers the bird. He later gets an offer from a Wilmer Cook for the Falcon, but before they can negotiate, he is killed. Shortly thereafter he meets a beautiful and mysterious Russian woman named Anna Kemidov, daughter of the general who once owned the real Maltese Falcon. She also wants Spade's copy and is willing to seduce him to get it. Spade is soon dealing with Litvak, a bald Nazi dwarf who is surrounded by an army of Hawaiian thugs. In the ensuing chaos, Immerman tries to become Spade's partner. Spade discovers that his "false" copy may be the real thing.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0072706/plotsummary Plot summary in Internet Movie DatabaseA puppy, who is strangely born with a coat that is a shade of light blue, is rejected by all. Nobody wants to play with him or to be his friend. Even the Grey Dogs avoid him. The Black Cat, a dodger and a faker, is the only one that feigns interest. Unexpectedly, the Pirate attacks the island and using the Black Cat, kidnaps the Blue Puppy. Along comes the Good Sailor, who always helps ones in trouble and does good things. As the Sailor sails the sea, the Black Cat tells him about the abduction of the Puppy. The Sailor decides to rescue the puppy and begins chasing the Pirate; the Pirate eventually attacks the Seaman with a saw-fish which sinks the Sailor's ship. The Pirate ties the Seaman and the Puppy together with shackles, but the Puppy manages to free both himself and the Sailor. Meanwhile, the Pirate and the Black Cat are celebrating their victory and sing a song about their spurious friendship. Their celebration is cut short, however, as the Seaman confronts and defeats the Pirate. He and the Puppy return to the island as heroes. Now, nobody tries to avoid the Puppy. More importantly, however, the Puppy now has a real friend. The moral of the story is that it is not so awful to be different from others, as long as one has friends, and the respect of one's peers.Set between 1910 and 1915, the story follows Jack Jefferson (James Earl Jones; patterned after real life boxer [[Jack Johnson  going on a hot streak of victories in the boxing ring as he defeats every white boxer around. Soon the press and other whites announce the search for a 'great white hope', a boxer who will defeat Jefferson for the Heavyweight title. Meanwhile, Jefferson prepares for a few more matches, but he lets his guard down by courting the beautiful  Eleanor Bachman , and when everyone, including Jack's black 'wife', discover this, the tensions grow to fever pitch. Jack's close black friends become scared over his pushing the envelope of success and the white authorities conspire to nail him with unlawful sexual relations with Eleanor and taking away his title. It leads to jealousy, a run from the law, and finally, disaster.The film begins aboard a luxury aircraft as Dr. Gropinger   travels on a goodwill tour. He misplaces his diary and is thrown into a panic as, without the diary, he no longer knows where he is or is supposed to be next. Stepping off the plane, he is shot dead after extending erroneous greetings to a congregation of Arabs. Soon after, the U.S. President  receives a threatening letter signed only "Moriarty", claiming responsibility for the death. The letter also claims Moriarty has set in motion a plan that will allow him to gain control of the world. The president dispatches a top agent to London to work with the world's top law enforcement officials and find a strategy to combat Moriarty. Headed by an incompetent Englishman , the committee settles on contacting the "present-day" Sherlock Holmes . He is enrolled by the Commissioner of Police  to lay plans for the capture of the descendant of Moriarty before he gains control of the world. Holmes reveals himself to be a great eccentric, with an affinity for certain addictive drugs . He is accompanied by the descendant of Doctor Watson , both a medical doctor and utter fool. Unfortunately, the commissioner is murdered before leaving the Holmes' residence, his death mainly the result of Watson's rampant stupidity. The duo then proceed to Scotland Yard to discuss the situation with the committee. Before any plans can be made, much of the committee is murdered by a distant sniper. Without their help, Holmes dreams up a plan to invite all of the great detectives in the world to a party, with the hope of discovering the true identity of Moriarty. He reasons that Moriarty will be unable to pass up a chance at attacking all of them in one fell swoop. Many fictional detectives are parodied and handed gruesome deaths while Holmes and Watson wait in a suite. The murderer is revealed to be none other than an exact copy of Watson. Due to Watson's ineptitude and the impersonator's great skill in deception, Holmes is faced with a quandary in determining the real culprit .Mike Locken  and George Hansen  are best friends and private contractors for a private intelligence agency, Communications Integrity or ComTeg, which handles covert assignments for the CIA. At the beginning of the film, Locken and Hansen are helping an East European defector, Vorodny  escape. After delivering the defector to other ComTeg operatives, Locken and Hansen throw a wild party to relax. The next day, they go to a ComTeg safehouse to relieve other agents who have been guarding Vorodny, the defector they previously helped escape. Hansen, having been bought out by an unknown rival group, assassinates Vorodny, and then critically wounds Locken in the knee and elbow, telling Locken that he's, "just been retired." Told that he'll be a cripple for life and that his career is apparently at an end, Locken undergoes a long period of rehabilitation when he is subsequently approached with another assignment from his Com-Teg contact man, Cap Collis. It requires him to protect an Asian client, Yuen Chung. It also gives him the opportunity to seek revenge against Hansen, who is part of the team out to assassinate the client. Locken, having become well versed in the martial arts using his cane during his rehabilitation, recruits a couple of former ComTeg associates, Mac , a wheelman and a former friend of Locken's and Miller , a weapons expert, to help him. However, the deal turns out to be an elaborate set-up, part of an internal power struggle between rival Com-Teg directors, the aforementioned Cap Collis and his superior, Lawrence Weybourne . In a subsequent assassination attempt on Chung, Hansen gets the drop on Locken, but is shot and killed by Miller. Locken rebukes Miller for killing Hansen as he felt cheated of his revenge. He later forgives him. A final showdown between the Asian rivals takes place aboard a naval vessel on the Reserve Fleet in Suisun Bay, California with Locken and Mac involved in the fray and confronting Collis one last time. <ref nameHgTuubaRD1Y Final scene on YouTube]A week after the burial of Robert and Katherine Thorn, archeologist Carl Bugenhagen  asks his friend Michael Morgan  to deliver a box to the guardian of Thorn's young son, Damien. He reveals that Damien is the Antichrist and that the box contains a warning and the means to kill Damien. As Morgan is unconvinced, Bugenhagen takes him to the ruin of Yigael's wall, showing him an ancient depiction of the Antichrist with Damien's face. Morgan is now convinced, but the two are buried alive as a tunnel collapses. Seven years later, 12-year old Damien  is living with his uncle, industrialist Richard Thorn  and his wife, Ann . He gets along well with his cousin Mark , Richard's son, with whom he is enrolled in a military academy. However, he is despised by Aunt Marion , who favors Mark and thinks Damien a bad influence, even threatening to cut Richard out of her will if he does not separate the two boys. The same night, the appearance of a raven wakes her and causes a fatal heart attack. Through a friend, Dr. Charles Warren , who is the curator of the Thorn Museum, Richard is introduced to journalist Joan Hart . She was a colleague of Keith Jennings ([[David Warner  from the previous film. Having seen Yigael's Wall, she draws a link to all the deaths that surrounded Damien, including Jennings's. She tries to warn Richard, but he throws her out of his limousine. After a confrontation with Warren and Ann Thorn at the Thorn Museum, she becomes unsure as to whether Damien's face matches the painting on Yigael's Wall. Hart goes to meet Damien at his school, but, when she sees his face, she drives off in a panic. On the road, her car's engine mysteriously dies. She is attacked by a raven, which pecks her eyes out. It flies away and, blinded, she wanders into the street where she is run over by a passing truck. At Thorn Industries, manager Paul Buher  suggests expanding the company's operations into agriculture; however, the project is shelved by senior manager Bill Atherton , who calls Buher's intention of buying up land in the process immoral. At Mark's birthday, Buher introduces himself to Damien, invites him to see the plant, and also speaks of his approaching initiation. Buher seemingly makes up with Atherton, who drowns after falling through the ice at a hockey game the following day. A shocked Richard leaves on vacation. As Richard agreed to the agriculture project in principle and left him in charge of the company, Buher then initiates the plans on his own. Meanwhile, at the academy, Damien's new commander, Sgt. Neff , takes the boy under his wing and warns him not to draw any attention to himself until the right moment. He also points him to Revelation, chapter 13, in which Damien reads about the beast. Finding its number, 666, scarred onto his scalp, he flees the Academy grounds in a terrified panic, distraught at being chosen as the vehicle for Satan's will. Another Thorn employee, Dr. David Pasarian , alerts Buher that some people were murdered after having refused to sell their land. Before Pasarian can inform Richard the next day, his is the victim of a fatal accident at work. He and his assistant are killed by toxic fumes released from machinery that mysteriously exploded. The accident injures Damien's class, who were visiting the plant. Damien alone is unharmed, but is taken to the hospital as a precaution. A doctor  discovers that Damien's blood cell structure resembles that of a jackal, but, before he can report this, he is cut in half by a falling elevator cable. Meanwhile, Bugenhagen's box has been found in the ruins and delivered to the Thorn Museum. Dr. Warren opens it and finds the Seven Daggers of Megiddo, the only weapons able to kill Damien, along with a letter explaining that Damien is the Antichrist. Warren rushes to inform Richard, who angrily refuses to believe it and throws him out of the house. The next day, Richard confronts Anne with the letter, but she convinces him that it is preposterous. Mark, who overheard Richard's altercation with Warren, confronts Damien, who first reluctantly and then proudly admits to being the Devil's son. Damien tries to convince Mark that he truly cares for him as his brother and asks Mark to join him, but Mark refuses. Damien kills Mark by introducing an aneurysm into his brain. Shaken by his son's death, Richard follows Warren's invitation to New York. A half-crazed Warren takes him to Yigael's Wall, stored in a cargo carrier, on which a horrified Richard sees Damien's image. Seconds later, a switching locomotive impales Charles and crushes him against the carriage, destroying the wall and convincing Richard beyond doubt that Damien is the Antichrist. Upon his return, Richard has Damien picked up from a ceremony at the academy and argues with Ann about him. When they find the daggers in Warren's office in the Thorn Museum, Ann uses them to kill Richard, proclaiming that she "always belonged to him". Ann is then engulfed by a fire, caused by Damien who overheard the altercation from outside. Damien, now heir to Thorn Industries, exits the museum and is picked up by the family driver, Murray, as the fire department arrives.In May 1969, Lou Jean Poplin assists her husband Clovis Michael Poplin to escape from the Beauford H. Jester Prison Farm in Texas, because she fears their son will be placed in the care of foster parents. During their flight, they overpower and kidnap Texas Department of Public Safety Patrolman Maxwell Slide, holding him hostage in a slow-moving caravan, along with reporters in news vans and helicopters. The Poplins and Slide travel through Beaumont, Dayton, Houston, Cleveland, Conroe and finally Wheelock, Texas. The Poplins bring Slide to the home of the foster parents, where they encounter numerous officers. An FBI agent and county sheriff shoots and kills Clovis, and later arrests Lou Jean. Patrolman Slide is found unharmed. Lou Jean spends fifteen months on a five year prison term in a women's correctional facility. Film characters Lou Jean Poplin and Clovis Michael Poplin are based on the lives of Ila Fae Holiday and Robert Dent, respectively. The character Patrolman Slide is based on Trooper J. Kenneth Crone.Dave Harmon , an army officer in the U.S. is sent to Yuma, a lawless city where it must impose order and stop the violence, but there the law is not well received.Walter Kranz , a former revolutionary poet is lost for new ideas and penniless. Fortunately he can obtain a cheque from nymphomaniac Irmgart von Witzleben  who wants to be threatened by a gun. Walter fires and disappears. Some more obscure things happen but in the end everybody is back on stage.Webster McGee  is a computer programmer who abruptly quits his job and adopts a life of crime as a jewel thief in Houston, Texas. For his first job he robs rich businessman Henderling , stealing from him not only money, but also files with information that could destroy Henderling's career. McGee uses them to blackmail him but instead of money he asks for introduction into high society -- aiming to find a way to rob other rich houses. He soon meets Laura  at a society function hosted by Henderling. She falls in love with McGee and then helps him to burglarize several friends of Henderling. Insurance investigator Dave Reilly  is intent on identifying Webster as the jewel thief, but in the course of investigation Reilly and McGee develop a sort of friendship. Reilly must decide whether to be loyal to his job or his new friend.With angry villagers driving them away from their castle in Transylvania, Dracula  and his son Ferdinand  head abroad. Dracula ends up in London, England where he becomes a horror movie star exploiting his vampire status. His son, meanwhile, is ashamed of his roots and ends up a night watchman in Paris, France where he falls for a girl. Naturally, tensions arise when father and son are reunited and both take a liking to the same girl.In 1867, John O'Hanlan  and Harley Sullivan  are aging cowboys working on open cattle ranges in Texas. O'Hanlan gets a letter from an attorney in Cheyenne, Wyoming, that his disreputable and now deceased brother, DJ, left him something called The Cheyenne Social Club in his will. After they make the 1,000 mile  trek to Cheyenne, O'Hanlan and Sullivan learn that The Cheyenne Social Club is a high-class brothel next to the railroad. O'Hanlan's new-found status as a man of property makes him the most popular man in town, until he decides to turn the Club into a respectable boarding house. The ladies of the Club hunker down, and show no sign of leaving. John gets into a bar-room brawl with several men who are equally angry at the prospect of the Club closing. John then learns from DJ's lawyer that DJ had made a deal with the railroad: if the ladies leave the Club, the land the Club is on will revert back to the railroad. John returns to the Club to discover that Jenny, the head girl , has been assaulted by a man named Corey Bannister. John, with Harley following along, arms himself and goes to the bar where Bannister is. John kills Bannister when Bannister mistakes Harley's cracking pecans for a second gun. "Just like DJ would have done" the barkeeper intones of John's heroics. The Sheriff advises John and Harley that Bannister's relatives are sure to head for Cheyenne once they learn of Bannister's death. He says he would like to stay and help John and Harley face down the Bannisters, but has to leave town on business. Harley heeds the Sheriff's warning and leaves for Texas in spite of John's pleads to stay. En route, Harley meets several men at a campfire. While engaging in conversation with the men, Harley discovers they are the Bannisters. He gets on his horse and rides on. The Bannisters show up at the Club and a gunfight ensues. John, with help from Jenny, kills two Bannisters from the window. A third Bannister enters the house through a back door and is killed by Jenny. Harley, who has returned, kills the fourth Bannister after climbing the railroad water tower. John yells, "Is that you Harley?" The head Bannister hears this and remembers Harley as the man who approached them at the campfire. He shoots at Harley, but is gunned down by John. The sixth Bannister runs away. John and Harley are feted at the bar which had formerly shunned them. The Sheriff congratulates them and then tells them 20 to 30 of the Bannisters cousins, the Markstones, are heading to Cheyenne. He says he would like to stay and help John and Harley face the Markstones, but has to leave town again on business. This time, John decides to leave and he has DJ's lawyer transfer ownership of the Club to Jenny. Months later, while working cattle on the range in Texas, John receives a letter from Jenny. He is touched by it, but tosses it into the fire before him. Harley is upset John has destroyed the letter because he wanted to read it. They then ride off together, arguing.Jonas Candide, a former carnival showman, travels around the South in 1918 with his own portable electric chair, going from prison to prison with his young assistant, Jimmy, charging one hundred dollars per execution. Two of Jonas' potential victims are siblings Willy and Gundred Herzallerliebst. While Jonas successfully executes Willy, he falls for Gundred, hoping to fake her execution. The musical The Fields of Ambrosia is based on the film.The New York TimesIt tells the story of Colonel Flynn O'Flynn  a hard drinking American, his daughter Rosa , and an outcast British aristocrat Sebastian  who falls in love with her. They are married and have a daughter together. The two men set out to get rich in German-controlled pre-World War I Tanganyika . Herman Fleischer, German Commander of Southern Province, relentlessly hunts O'Flynn. Fleischer has a warship ram and sink O'Flynn's Arab dhow  containing poached ivory. Later whilst attacking O'Flynn's home, the soldiers under Fleischer's command take the life of Sebastian's daughter Maria. During their hunt to kill Fleischer, for the death of the daughter, it's discovered that Britain is at war with Germany. Allied officers convince O'Flynn to locate and destroy the German warship awaiting repair. O'Flynn, Sebastian, and Rosa pursue Fleischer, who happens to be on the warship. O'Flynn is a master manipulator and con man pursuing financial gain. He gets everyone, except Rosa, to follow his lead throughout the movie; his one weakness is gin. The film is filled with fist fights, shooting, and assorted violence. There are a few tender moments during Sebastian and Rosa's romance.In the same tradition as The White Sun of the Desert and The Bodyguard, The Seventh Bullet is set after the Russian Civil War which ended in the 1920s when Soviet power established itself in Central Asia in the wake of the Basmachi rebellion. Despite this slight shift in emphasis and a post-war setting, The Seventh Bullet is closer to a typical war film than other Red Westerns because of a prominence of tactical resourcefulness in the development of the plot. Although of course this is a staple of many American Westerns from John Ford's cavalry series to the many Apache war films. Despite the restoration of Soviet power in the area, Basmachis continue to arrive from across the border, bringing death and destruction to peaceful villages. One of the bands of rebels is led by Khairulla who is pitted against the militsiya  leader Maxumov. At first it seems hopeless for Maxumov as the rebels capture most of his men, winning them over to his side. He has only one strategy left; to give himself up, and try to explain to the people that Khairulla has deceived them, turning the soldiers back to revolution. Later in pursuit of his enemy, he chases Khairulla across a river. He has only one bullet left—the seventh, and he must not miss his target!The Trojan Women was one of a trilogy of plays dealing with the suffering created by the Trojan Wars. Hecuba , Queen of the Trojans and mother of Hector, one of Troys most fearsome warriors, looks upon the remains of her kingdom; Andromache , widow of the slain Hector and mother of his son Astyanax, must raise her son in the war's aftermath; Cassandra , Hecuba's daughter who has been driven insane by the ravages of war, waits to see if King Agamemnon will drive her into concubinage; Helen of Troy , waits to see if she will live. But the most awful truth is unknown to them until Talthybius , the messenger of the Greek king, comes to the ruined city and tells them that King Agamemnon and his brother Menelaus have decreed that Hector's son Astyanax must die — the last of the male royalty of Troy must be executed to ensure the extinction of the line.{{plot|section|dateThe murderCluesSuspectsMotive After concluding his enquiries on the suspects, Poirot gathers all of them in the dining room to present his solution to the crime. He has concluded into two possible scenarios of the murder. The first scenario, which he calls the simple solution, is based on several clues, planted by the suspects to imply that Ratchett's/Cassetti's murder was a result of a mafia feud, intending to throw off-track any investigations. Then Poirot analyzes his second solution, referring to it as a more complex one than the previous, according to which every passenger of the Calais coach, including the steward, Michel, were linked to the Armstrong case, thus providing them with sufficient motives: *McQueen was the son of the District Attorney who prosecuted the case and was very fond of Mrs. Armstrong; *Beddoes was Colonel Armstrong's army batman and the family butler; *Miss Debenham was Mrs Armstrong's secretary; *Col. Arbuthnott was an army friend of Col. Armstrong; *Princess Dragomiroff was Sonia Armstrong's godmother; *Miss Schmidt was the Armstrongs' cook; *Countess Andrenyi was Mrs Armstrong's sister; *Count Andrenyi was Mrs Armstrong's brother in law. *Miss Ohlsson was Daisy's nursemaid; *Mrs Hubbard was Mrs Armstrong's mother; *Foscarelli was the Armstrongs' chauffeur; *Hardman was, at the time, a policeman who was in love with Paulette; *Michel was Paulette's father. Ratchett was sedated by Beddoes and McQueen. Each of the passengers then stabbed him in turn. As soon as Poirot finishes his explanation, everyone in the car is dumbfounded. Poirot suggests that Bianchi should choose which explanation they should present to the police: the simple or the complex one. Bianchi decides that this "simple" solution will be more than enough for the local police and that Ratchett deserved everything he got. A cover-up is therefore instigated. Poirot agrees with the decision, and he departs to conduct his report to the police, even though he admits he will struggle with his conscience. The train becomes unbound with snow and starts on its way as everyone toasts one another.While in the hospital, 60-year-old truck driver Elegant John  gets his rig repossessed by the finance company. Deciding that it's time to make one last perfect cross-country run, he escapes from the hospital and steals back his truck. Doing a favor for an old friend, madam Penelope , he picks up six prostitutes  to bring them across the border. He heads off into the night with the police on his tail, and becomes a folk hero.Beginning with a premonition of his death, the film follows a young everyman Brian Stirner through his call up to the East Yorkshire Regiment, his training, his meeting a young girl Julie Neesam, his journey to France, and his death on Sword Beach. Director Cooper also includes footage of the London Blitz and bombing of Europe to emphasise the events leading up to the invasion and the comparatively short distance between England and France.Northern Leg  travels across China to find the man responsible for the death of his parents. The culprit is none other than the Silver Fox , a feared martial arts expert and bandit. Silver Fox has also caught the attention of Southern Fist , a government agent. While Southern Fist and Northern Leg are both after the same man, they discover that alone they are no match for Silver Fox. The two heroes must combine their skills, knowing that it is the only way to gain success against their awesome adversary. In the course of finding and defeating the Silver Fox, both Northern Leg and Southern Fist fall for the same woman, the daughter of the owner of the inn they stay at for the duration of the movie. Throughout the movie they both vie for her attention, asking questions of the butler at the inn and a child who follows Southern Fist throughout the film.Libya 1943, British Army Captain Alex Foster allows himself to be captured by a German convoy transporting British prisoners. Once integrated with the prisoners, Forster plans to take over the convoy with the help of the prisoners and redirect it towards the Libyan port town of Tobruk. In a journey that has a few twists and turns including Forster running into Field Marshal Erwin Rommel, they finally reach Tobruk where they destroy a coastal battery and escape to awaiting Royal Navy battleships.An outlaw, Roy Bean, rides into a West Texas border town called Vinegaroon by himself. The customers in the saloon beat him, rob him, toss a noose around him and let Bean's horse drag him off. A young woman named Maria Elena finds and helps him. Bean promptly returns to town and shoots all those who did him wrong. With no law and order, he appoints himself judge and "the law west of the Pecos" and becomes the townspeople's "patrone." Bean renames the saloon The Jersey Lilly and hangs a portrait of a woman he worships but has never met, Lily Langtry, a noted actress and singer of the 1890s. When a band of thieves come to town, Big Bart Jackson and gang members Nick the Grub, Fermel Parlee and Whorehouse Lucky Jim, rather than oppose them, Bean swears them in as lawmen. The new marshals round up other outlaws, then claim their money after Bean sentences them to hang. Dispensing his own kind of frontier justice, Bean lets the marshals hang Sam Dodd and share his money. When a drunk shoots up a saloon, Bean doesn't mind, but when Lily's portrait is struck by a bullet, the fellow is shot dead on the spot. Prostitutes are sentenced to remain in town and keep the marshals company. Maria Elena is given a place to live and fine clothes ordered from a Sears Roebuck catalog. A mountain man called Grizzly Adams gives her and Bean a bear as a pet. As soon as lawyer Frank Gass shows up claiming the saloon is rightfully his, Bean puts him in a cage with the bear. Bean goes off to San Antonio, leaving a pregnant Maria Elena behind and promising her a music box that plays "The Yellow Rose of Texas." In his absence, Gass and the prostitutes conspire to seize control of the town from the judge's hard rule. A dapper Bean tries to see Lily Langtry's show, but it is sold out. He is deceived by men who knock him cold and steal his money. Upon his return, Bean finds that Maria Elena is dying following a difficult childbirth. He names the baby Rose after the music box's song. He also plans to hang the doctor, but Gass, who has been elected mayor, overrules him. Bean is sorrowful about losing Maria Elena and rides away. Gass brings in hired guns to get rid of Bean's marshals. Years go by. Oil rigs have been built around the prospering town. A grown-up Rose is surprised one day to look up and find Bean has returned. A shootout follows, Gass is killed and a fire engulfs the saloon, where the burning roof collapses on Bean. A train pauses by the town, a considerable time later. Out steps Lily Langtry. She is told the story of Judge Roy Bean and his feelings toward her. She concludes that he must have been quite a character.Former British Major Robert Dapes  arrives in Cuba under General Bello's  orders to train the Cuban army to resist Fidel Castro's upcoming revolution. Before he even begins his task, he struck by the reappearance of an old flame, Alexandra Lopez de Pulido ([[Brooke Adams , whom he repeatedly tries to pursue. The plot winds around the tremendous wealth of the present leaders, the mostly American tourists who seem to ooze money, the poverty-stricken and ex-urban slums where most Cubans live, and the rum and cigar factory that Alexandra's husband owns and that Alexandra runs. A blatant sexual nightclub performance is interrupted by Fidel's soldiers in olive green, with machine guns, scattering the entertainment and the entertained and leaving a bloodsoaked scene. When Alexandra's husband takes her out and expects her to sit and have a drink with a potential  investor and his prostitute, she leaves the restaurant and runs into Robert. Furious with her husband, she is more open to spending time with him and reminiscencing about their old affair in North Africa . They find a motel and make love. It is clear that they care for each other. But he will not stay in Cuba. Will she leave with him? The next day virtually every Cuban worker goes on strike, including those in Alex's factory. Alex watches the events go by, believing things will soon return to normal. Robert begs her to leave, either to be with him or just to escape Cuba. She refuses. Not seeing Alex at the airport, Robert boards the plane. Meanwhile, Alex is at the airport, outside the wire fence, watching him board the plane and weeping. This movie weaves many more plots around these events, as various Cubans, Brits, and Americans try to make something of the revolution. What is most stunning about this movie, however, is that it unwinds like a James Bond movie but "inside out." Robert is the cool, competent, knowledgeable spy: but he is inserted into a history that imposes on him an almost complete passivity: he is supposed to engineer Fidel's defeat; he knows Fidel will win. And instead of powerfully sweeping his gorgeous counterpart off her feet, she's always one step ahead of him, and he must let her go.Coffin Ed Johnson & Gravedigger Jones are confounded by a string of strange murders in the neighborhood of Harlem, New York. The murders themselves aren't nearly as bizarre as the calling card left by the murderer: a blue steel straight razor. Legend has it that this was the calling card of Charleston Blue, a vigilante who tried to rid the neighborhood of all criminal elements using a straight razor. Blue, having disappeared years ago after he went after Dutch Schultz  was considered dead by all except his girlfriend, who kept his razors locked away until his "come back." Soon after the murders began it is discovered that the razors were missing and all evidence points to Joe Painter, a local photographer, who has begun dating Carol, the beloved niece of mafia errand boy, Caspar Brown. Joe and Brown are at odds over Caspar's refusal to help Joe kick the mafia out of the neighborhood, so Joe enlists the help of a group of brothers and the spirit of Charleston Blue. However, Coffin Ed & Gravedigger Jones discover that Joe's plan doesn't seem to be exactly what he claimed it was.While reviewing pictures of the planet Jupiter, astronomer Jennifer Dreiser  discovers a new comet streaking through space. The joy of finding the comet is short-lived, however, when it is determined that it may hit the Earth in just eight days. Dreiser is summoned to see the President  at his vacation home, along with a number of other experts, to discuss the situation. Astronomer Jason Voight , a specialist in near-Earth objects, shocks the group by telling them that the comet will hit within 50 miles of Phoenix. Voight urges the President to order an evacuation of Phoenix and the surrounding area, but the President ultimately leaves that decision in the hands of Arizona's governor, Michael Ritchie . The President does order the MIRV nosecone of a Minuteman ICBM be launched into space aboard a Titan-Centaur rocket, so that an attempt can be made at destroying the comet. After talking with the President, Governor Ritchie meets with a number of key people, including his chief of staff Elliott Kirkwood , insurance executive Paul Gilliam , newspaper owner David Allan , and emergency management officer Wayne Lustus . David's wife, television station owner Sharon Allan , gets wind of the meeting, but is unable to get David to tell her what's going on. Ultimately, Sharon asks Carol , a reporter at David's newspaper with whom David is having an affair, to find out. Voight is adamant that the people be told what's going to happen to Phoenix. Sharon Allan is the only media person in town who is willing to discuss the issue with him. Ultimately, Voight convinces her to put him on the air and describes what will happen when the comet hits. Voight's broadcast has one desired effect - people begin leaving the city for safety. But it also leads to businesses being looted. Governor Ritchie instructs Elliott to report the broadcast to the FCC, in an effort to get Sharon's television station's license to broadcast revoked. The air force's attempt to intercept the comet is broadcast on national television. Both of the nuclear warheads detonate behind the comet's nucleus, in its tail. Once it has been confirmed that the comet is still on course to hit the Earth, the network broadcast is interrupted with instructions from civil defense urging citizens of Phoenix to begin leaving the area immediately. Governor Ritchie, now understanding the real danger posed by the comet, resolves to withdraw the FCC protest against Sharon's station and takes to the airwaves to urge people to evacuate the city. The day of the comet's impact, Voight tells Jennifer to meet him in Tucson, so that they can go off to Mexico together. Jennifer begs him to go directly to Tucson with her, but he insists on taking some scientific equipment to the comet's projected impact point, to record atmospheric and seismic data from the impact. When he gets to the impact area, in the desert outside the city, he finds a large group of Pima Indians whose truck has broken down. Voight calls for help on his Citizens Band radio and is promised that choppers will pick them up as soon as possible. Not knowing if the help is really going to come, Voight gives the keys to his car to one of the adults in the stranded group, and after packing all the young children into the car, gives the man instructions to head away from the impact zone. Evacuees clog the roads leading out of Phoenix, and many of them pour into Sky Harbor Airport to catch flights out of the city. That includes Paul Gilliam, his wife Ellen , and their daughter Paula . When her parents leave their car to go into the airport terminal, Paula stays behind to look for some jewelry her mother has forgotten. This gives Paula the opportunity to get back to her boyfriend, Tom Reardon , a rough-and-tumble college student with whom she has a romantic relationship and of whom her father disapproves. Tom's grandmother  refuses to leave her home, and Tom is unwilling to leave her to face the comet's impact alone. Tom, Mrs. Reardon, and Paula begin preparing for the coming disaster. In the hours before impact, Stan Webster , who is leading a group of young boys  on a survival hike, finds out about the comet over the radio. With no shelter immediately available, Webster and the boys dig themselves into the desert floor and cover themselves with sleeping bags in a desperate attempt to survive the impact. Governor Ritchie and Elliott try to fly out of Phoenix, but air traffic control refuses clearance. Elliott orders the pilot to fly them out, which the pilot reluctantly tries to do. Their small aircraft bursts into flames after hitting a larger commercial plane, tearing the landing gear off the commercial plane and forcing it to be diverted to San Diego. Meanwhile, Ann Webster , who has been in the family station wagon looking for her husband and son, has broken down in the desert. David Allan, who had been drafted to help evacuate patients from a local hospital, takes refuge with them in the basement of a bank building downtown. Sharon Allan, who keeps her television station on the air until the last possible moment, rushes to the lowest levels of a parking garage with several members of her staff in the moments before impact. Jennifer Dreiser arrives safely in Tucson before the comet hits. The choppers never arrive to airlift Voight and the stranded Pima Indian adults out of the impact zone. As the comet makes its final approach, Voight looks up and sees the fire in the sky that he had warned so many people about. Voight and the others are all killed when the comet hits. Strong winds and earth tremors devastate Phoenix. The bank building's basement, though rattled by the impact, holds up and David survives. Sharon is abandoned by her colleagues when they think the parking garage is going to cave in. One of them eventually makes it to the bank building for medical treatment after the impact and tells David where Sharon is. David finds Sharon amidst the rubble of the garage, and after a tearful reunion, they vow to work on their struggling marriage. The Reardons and Paula Gilliam survive, too, though Mrs. Reardon's home is destroyed. Stan Webster and his son, riding to a refugee center with the rest of their hiking group through the desert in the back of a military truck, spot Ann Webster walking along with a small group of survivors. They jump off the truck and greet her with hugs, happy that she survived the impact.John McCanless was once a gunslinger and has become a cranky old rancher. There is a plan to build a dam which would flood his property. John has no intention of selling his land and is determined to fight the dam to the end if necessary.Badlands is narrated by Holly , a teenage girl living in a dead-end South Dakota town. One day she meets Kit , a rebellious young greaser who charms her and takes her as his accomplice on a cross-country killing spree. Holly's narration, describing her adventures with Kit with romantic clichés, is juxtaposed with the grim reality of Kit's sociopathic actions. The two are eventually arrested; Kit is executed for his crimes, while Holly receives probation.* Louis Riel  leads the Red River and North-West Rebellions against the Canadian government's expansionist ideas leading up to his capture, trial and execution in 1885.The titular highway is a long and winding road that leads to Earth from an area high up in space where newborn babies come from. The plot revolves around a newborn child, referred to as "Bub", as he tries to decide what he wants out of its life, or even if he wants to go at all, before being sent down the Hoober-Bloob Highway to be born. Mr. Hoober-Bloob, with the help of a lute with arms and legs that often breaks into fast-paced solos , explains to the child what to expect in human life. His explanations are often accompanied by musical vignettes of the baby, depicted as a pre-adolescent boy, in an unusual situation that accompanies the song . Eventually, the baby makes its decisions, and Mr. Hoober-Bloob excitedly pushes it down the Hoober-Bloob Highway at last.A wild team of misfits think that they can make it big. What's a coach to do with a chronic nose-picker, a flatulent fielder, an out of control pitcher, a juvenile delinquent and the prettiest girl in the state? Turn this bunch of losers into a winning team! When their new coach enlists an unusual new teammate, it's a whole new ballgame as they band together to win their first championship, determined to prove that losers can be winners, too.Joe Bonham , a young American soldier hit by an artillery shell during World War I, lies in a hospital bed. He is a quadruple amputee who has also lost his eyes, ears, mouth and nose. He remains conscious and able to reason, however, rendering him a prisoner in his own body. As he drifts between reality and fantasy, he remembers his old life with his family and girlfriend . He also forms a bond, of sorts, with a young nurse  who senses his plight. At the end of the film, Joe tries to communicate to his doctors, via Morse code, and wishes for the Army to either put him in a glass coffin in a freak show as a demonstration of the horrors of war, or kill him. In the end, however, he realizes that the Army will grant neither wish, and will leave him in a state of living death. In the film's climax, his nurse attempts to euthanize him by clamping his breathing tube, but her supervisor stops her before Joe can succumb. This does not occur in the novel. The film ends with Joe weakly chanting "S.O.S. Help me."Jeff Rayburn, an American surfer visiting Australia, gets involved in the world of sidecar motorcycle racing. He becomes friends with Dave Ferguson and the two of them form a champion team.In the opening of the film, Kolchak is sitting on the bed of a sleazy hotel room speaking into his trademark portable tape recorder about the story he has written and how it has been withheld by the authorities. He describes a series of murders that had plagued the world-famous Las Vegas Strip. All of the victims had their blood drained, and Kolchak comes to suspect that the killer believes himself to be a vampire, much to the chagrin of his cantankerous boss Anthony  Vincenzo, portrayed by actor Simon Oakland. Kolchak also has a girlfriend named Gail Foster  who earns her living as a dancer. During the movie, Kolchak attempts to get her to give up her night job, though he does not offer her a proposal of marriage, or other commitment. At the urging of this girlfriend, Kolchak begins to look into vampire lore, but is skeptical. Inexplicable events lead Kolchak to begin to believe that something supernatural is occurring, and the evidence of his own eyes eventually persuades him that this is in fact a real vampire. Kolchak is able to convince the police that they are fighting a vampire, but it is he who ultimately takes the vampire down and unlike subsequent productions, he does so with the help of his friend in the FBI . In the end, Kolchak relates that his deal with the police for an exclusive was not honored. Kolchak finds himself out of a job once again, and blackmailed by the Las Vegas police never to return to Las Vegas. Kolchak is told that his girlfriend Gail has also been "asked to leave town" for engaging in unsavory activities. Carl exhausts his savings placing personal advertisements across the country in an attempt to find her but is unsuccessful.In Marin County, two gas company men are lured by a scantily-clad woman to a remote spot in Mill Valley and killed by Bobby Maxwell . Maxwell's gang, the People's Revolutionary Strike Force , plans to use the gas men's uniforms and van as part of an ambitious series of crimes that will make them rich. Inspector Harry Callahan  and his partner Frank DiGiorgio , after dealing with a chronic fainter, arrive at a liquor store where robbers have taken hostages. The robbers demand a car with a police radio; the inspector provides one by driving his squad car into the store and shooting the robbers. His superior Captain McKay  reprimands Callahan for "excessive use of force", injuring the hostages, and causing $14,379 of damage to the store, and temporarily transfers him out of the Homicide unit. While assigned to Personnel, Callahan participates in the interview process for promotions, and learns that affirmative action means that three of the new inspectors will be female including Kate Moore , despite her very limited field experience. The PRSF uses the gas company van to steal M72 LAW rockets and other weapons from a warehouse. In the course of the robbery, three people are killed: a security guard that Maxwell kills for his keys; DiGiorgio, whom Maxwell stabs in the back after he stumbles in on the robbery after discovering the guard's body; one of Maxwell's accomplices is accidentally shot when DiGiorgio's gun goes off. Maxwell finishes her off as "dead weight" with DiGiorgio's weapon. To Callahan's distress, Moore is his new partner; she claims to understand the risk, noting that&mdash;besides DiGiorgio&mdash;two other partners of his have died. After watching an Army demonstration of the LAW rocket on a firing range, they visit the Hall of Justice to sit in on an autopsy on the security guard killed in the robbery. Shortly afterwards, a bomb explodes in the bathroom. Callahan and Moore chase down and capture the PRSF bomber, Henry Lee Caldwell, and meet "Big" Ed Mustapha , leader of a black militant group the bomber formerly belonged to. Although Callahan makes a deal with Mustapha for information, McKay arrests the militants for the PRSF's crimes. Callahan angrily refuses to participate in a televised press conference in which the publicity-seeking Mayor would commend him and Moore  for solving the case, and McKay suspends him from duty. Moore supports Callahan and gains his respect. The PRSF boldly kidnaps the Mayor after a Giants game in a very orchestrated ambush. With Mustapha's help Callahan and Moore locate the gang at Alcatraz Island, where they battle the kidnappers. Moore frees the Mayor but Maxwell kills her as she saves Callahan's life. He avenges Moore by killing Maxwell with a LAW rocket. The inspector is uninterested in the Mayor's gratitude, returning to his partner's corpse as McKay and others arrive.The film opens with a dedication to Truffaut's frequently star Jean-Pierre Léaud, and the statement: "This story is authentic: it opens in 1798 in a French forest." One summer day in 1798, a naked boy eleven or twelve years of age  is found in a forest in the rural district of Aveyron in southern France. A woman sees him, then runs off screaming. She finds some hunters and tells them that she saw a wild boy. They hunt him down with a pack of dogs . The dogs, upon picking up the boy's scent, chase him up a tree. A branch breaks off, and the dogs attack him when he falls. He fights them off leaving one wounded, then continues to flee and hides in a hole. The dogs continue to follow his scent, eventually finding his hiding hole. The hunters arrive and force him out of the hole using smoke to cut off his air supply. After he emerges, the men grab him. Living like a wild animal and unable to speak or understand language, the child has apparently grown up in solitude in the forest since an early age. He is brought to Paris and initially placed in a school for "deaf-mutes". Dr. Jean Marc Gaspard Itard  observes the boy and believes that he is neither deaf nor, as some of his colleagues believe, an "idiot". Itard thinks the boy's behavior is a result of his deprived environment, and that he can be educated. Itard takes custody of the boy, whom he eventually names Victor, and removes him to his house on the outskirts of Paris. There, under the patient tutelage of the doctor and his housekeeper , Victor gradually becomes socialized and acquires the rudiments of language. There is a narrow margin between the laws of civilization in rough Parisian life and the brutal laws of life in nature. Victor finds a sort of equilibrium in the windows that mark the transition between the closed interiors and the world outside. But he gains his ability to have social relations by losing his capacity to live as a savage.Truffaut, François & Gruault, Jean, Lewin, Linda & Lémery, Christine . The Wild Child. New York: Washington Square Press, Pocket Books. 1973. pp. 21-189. SBN 671-47893-1The film begins with Tunin  learning that his friend, an anarchist who was plotting to kill Benito Mussolini, has been killed by Mussolini's fascist police in the countryside. Tunin decides to take up the cause his friend died for. The movie then shows Tunin entering a brothel in Rome and meeting Salomè . The two have a casual sexual encounter. Salome explains her reasons for helping in the assassination plot as her former lover was wrongfully beaten to death by the Mussolini's police in Milan. The story continues as Salomè arranges for her, Tunin and Tripolina , another prostitute at the brothel, are going to spend the day with Spatoletti, the head of Mussolini's police. The four of them go to the countryside near Rome where the assassination will take place in several days time. Salomè keeps Spatoletti busy while Tunin can scout out the area and plan. Tunin takes an interest, however, in Tripolina and they fall in love. Tunin convinces Tripolina to spend the next two days with him before the assassination as he fears they may be his last. On the morning of the assassination Tripolina is supposed to wake Tunin early. She loves him and is scared he will die so she decides she will not wake him. Tripolina and Salomè argue about this and what to do but in the end they decide to let him sleep. Tunin wakes up and is furious at both of them. He goes into a tirade that draws the attention of the police. He starts a shootout with them and screams that he wants to kill Mussolini. He is captured and beaten to death by the police. The film ends the way it began showing the full title of the film "Stamattina alle 10, in via dei Fiori, nella nota casa di tolleranza..." This morning at 10, on Via dei Fiori , in a noted brothel which is the heading of an unnamed newspaper. The article goes on to say that Tunin  was arrested and then committed suicide, in a statement of the fascist censorship characteristic of the time.Set on an anonymous Greek island during the last year of the war, 1944, Allied POWs in a remote POW camp are forced to work for the Germans by digging up ancient Greek archaeological artifacts. The camp Commandant, Major Otto Hecht , was an Austrian antiques dealer before the war. Unknown to Hecht's superiors is the fact that he's withholding the more valuable finds for his own personal gain, and sending them to his sister living in Switzerland. Hecht is far from the dutiful army officer, the total opposite of the nearest town's Commandant, Gestapo Major Volkmann . Volkmann and his Lieutenants  rule the town's population with a sadistic grip, executing the innocent residents just as easily as enemy soldiers. The only opposition to the Germans is Zeno , a former Monk, and his few resistance fighters who use the local brothel as an undercover headquarters. Zeno, who is in contact with Allied Headquarters, is ordered to break the prisoners out of their camp to increase his numbers and therefore liberate the town from the Germans and also secure a U-Boat refuelling depot. Using two captured USO artists Charlie  and Dottie  to perform a concert as cover, the prisoners and Zeno's resistance take over the camp. With the choice of helping the resistance or being killed by Zeno, Hecht joins forces with the allies and helps them eradicate Volkmann's troops as well as capturing the fuel depot. With Volkmann dead and the Germans in town no longer a threat, Charlie asks Zeno to lead him and two other prisoners  up to the monastery on Mount Athena to steal Byzantine treasures being kept by the monks. Zeno agrees, to everyone's surprise, but insists they take weapons and explosives as there's a German garrison up there. In reality, Zeno has been ordered to destroy the garrison and its V-2 rockets that would be capable of hindering a proposed Allied invasion, and knows Charley wouldn't go if he knew of the Germans' presence. As Zeno completes his mission of destroying the Nazis' missile base, Charlie finds a set of plates, but not the plates he had expected to find, actually being a set of tin plates, adorned with Hitler's face. During the victory celebration in the village, Hecht, Charlie, and Dottie make plans to acquire more treasures, while Professor Blake  finds out, from one of the other monks, that the plates are safe, having hidden them in the brothel, which, in the final scene of the film, is displayed for all present day visitors to see in the front windows of the brothel.Chicago Examiner reporter Hildy Johnson has just quit his job in order to marry Peggy Grant and start a new career when, shortly prior to his scheduled execution, convicted revolutionary Earl Williams escapes from death row in the Cook County Jail and secretes himself in a rolltop desk in the Criminal Court Building press room. In reality, Earl is an impoverished, bumbling leftist with a penchant for stuffing fortune cookies with messages demanding the release of Sacco and Vanzetti, but the yellow press of Chicago has painted him as a dangerous threat from Moscow and as a result the city's citizens are anxious to see him put to death. Mollie Malloy, the condemned man's girlfriend and a self-described "$2 whore from Division Street", reveals his hiding place to Hildy, who is unable to resist the lure of what could be the biggest scoop of his soon-to-be-over career in journalism. Ruthless, egomaniacal managing editor Walter Burns, desperate to keep Hildy on the job, encourages him to stay and cover the story. When Earl is in danger of being discovered, Mollie creates a distraction by leaping from the third-floor window, which she does survive with a few injuries. When Earl is caught, Hildy and Walter are arrested for aiding and abetting a fugitive but are released when they discover the mayor and sheriff had colluded to keep secret a last-minute pardon of Earl by the governor. Walter grudgingly accepts the fact he is losing his ace reporter and presents him with a watch as a token of his appreciation. Hildy and Peggy set off to get married, and Walter telegraphs the next railway station to alert them to the fact the man who stole his watch is on the inbound train and should be apprehended by the police.In 1972,<ref nameDeleted scenes Cut from the final film were two scenes that explain why Harry grows to suspect Astrachan, Davis, Grimes, and Sweet of the killings of Charlie McCoy, Guzman, Ricca, the pimp, and all of the other criminals."Magnum Force" at IMDB - Trivia *The first scene cut takes place after Davis and Harry watch McCoy's funeral flight take off and before the combat pistol championship; after the flight Harry and Davis drive from the airport to a bowling alley for a few drinks; a black youth is suddenly chased outside and assaulted by four toughs; Davis attacks the toughs while Harry dispatches one with his beer mug. After subduing the robbers, Davis harangues a group of eyewitnesses for letting such crimes take place; Harry witnesses Davis's harangue and sees in it his own approach to crime fighting, albeit far more severe. *Later, after examining the bullet from Davis's gun at the combat pistol championship range, Harry checks on old issues of a police magazine. He finds articles condemning the revolving door justice allowed by liberal politics - and these articles are authored by the four rookie cops.In a dystopic Australia, after the Earth's oil supplies were nearly exhausted, law and order has begun to break down due to energy shortages. Berserk motorcycle gang member Crawford "Nightrider" Montizano has escaped police custody and is attempting to outrun the Main Force Patrol  in a stolen Pursuit Special . Though he manages to elude his initial pursuers, the MFP's top pursuit man, Max Rockatansky, then engages the less-skilled Nightrider in a high-speed chase, resulting in Nightrider dying in a fiery crash. Nightrider's motorcycle gang, led by Toecutter and Bubba Zanetti, is running roughshod over a town, vandalising property, stealing fuel and terrorising the populace. Max and officer Jim "Goose" Rains arrest Toecutter's young protégé, Johnny "the Boy" Boyle, when Johnny, too high to ride, stays behind after the gang rapes a young couple. When no witnesses appear for his trial, the courts throw the case out and Johnny is released. An angry Goose attacks Johnny and must be held back; both men shout threats of revenge. After Bubba Zanetti drags Johnny away, MFP Captain Fred "Fifi" McPhee tells his officers to do whatever it takes to apprehend the gangs, "so long as the paperwork's clean." A short time later, Johnny sabotages Goose's motorcycle; it locks up at high speed, throwing Goose from the bike. Goose is unharmed, though his bike is badly damaged; he borrows a ute to haul his bike back. However, Johnny and Toecutter's gang are waiting in ambush. Johnny throws a brake drum at Goose's windscreen, which shatters and causes Goose to crash the ute; Toecutter then instructs Johnny to throw a match into the gasoline leaking from Goose's wrecked ute, while Goose is trapped inside. Johnny refuses; Toecutter first cajoles, then verbally and physically abuses him. Johnny eventually throws the lit match into the wreckage, which erupts in flames, burning Goose alive. Goose is rescued, although he dies in the hospital due to his burns. After seeing his charred body, Max becomes disillusioned with the Police Force. Worried of what may happen if he continues working for the MFP – and that he is beginning to enjoy the insanity – Max announces to Fifi that he is resigning from the MFP. Fifi convinces him to take a holiday first before making his final decision about the resignation. Max also reports this to Jessie, his wife at the remote farm where they live, who is happy with his decision so they could take care of their young baby son. While Max is away to buy supplies, Jessie and her infant encounter Toecutter's gang, who attempt to rape her. She flees, but the gang later finds them again at their remote farm. The gang runs over Jessie and Max's son as they try to escape, leaving their crushed bodies in the middle of the road. Max arrives too late to save them, devastated by the events. Filled with rage, Max dons his police leathers and takes a supercharged black Pursuit Special  from the MFP storage to pursue the gang. After torturing a mechanic for information, Max methodically hunts down the gang members: he forces several of them off a bridge at high speed, shoots Bubba at point blank range with his shotgun, and forces Toecutter into the path of a semi-trailer truck. Max finally finds Johnny, who is looting a car crash victim he presumably murdered for a pair of boots. In a cold, suppressed rage, Max handcuffs Johnny's ankle to the wrecked vehicle whilst Johnny begs for his life. Not content to simply kill Johnny right away, Max ignores his begging and sets a crude time-delay fuse with a slow fuel leak and a lighter. Throwing Johnny a hacksaw, Max leaves him the choice of sawing through either the handcuffs  or his ankle . Max casually drives away; as he clears the bridge, Johnny's vehicle explodes. Max continues driving into the darkness, with his and Johnny's fate unknown.The police prepares to trap the Drug Lord of Naples. The plan fails and Rizzo  decides to interrogate him for the last time, but when he arrives the Drug Lord has been murdered. Rizzo is accused of the murder and decides to investigate the arrival of an Italo-American mafia man,Frank Barella . The information given by Barella and Ferramenti , make Rizzo believe that there is a rat in the police department and therefore he must go to the Far East to find out who he is. On his way through Thailand, Hong Kong and Macau, Rizzo encounters Barella, and this leads him to believe who is the corrupt police senior.When Reverend John Keyes  and his wife Lorna  arrive in a western town, they find that there is mysterious force causing bad luck to plague the settlers. Once the Reverend is able to get the recalcitrant residents to speak about the ongoing troubles, he finds his spiritual leadership is being challenged by a cult of devil worshippers who practice voodoo, and have to get to the heart of a strange relationship between a mute young girl and a gunslinger who seem possessed by Satanic spirits. It was noted in The Monster Book, that in Black Noon, Roy Thinnes' character battled devil worshippers, but that in a later film, Satan's School for Girls, he led his own cult.{{cite book}}Victor Frankenstein, a cold, arrogant and womanizing genius, is angry when his father forbids him to continue his anatomy experiments. He ruthlessly murders his father by sabotaging the old man's shotgun, consequently inheriting the title of Baron von Frankenstein and the family fortune. He uses the money to enter medical school in Vienna, but is forced to return home when he impregnates the daughter of the Dean. Returning to his own castle, he sets up a laboratory and starts a series of experiments involving the revival of the dead. He eventually builds a composite body from human parts, which he then brings to life. The creature goes on a homicidal rampage until it is accidentally destroyed when a vat where it has been hidden is flooded with acid.The movie portrayed the relationship between the British colonialists and native villagers, and their exploitation by Indian landlords in 1920's India. It also depicts the development of a friendship between a British administrator with a flair for game hunting, and a village man, who is an expert archer. This happens in the backdrop of the awakening of the Indian people against the British rule.Buddy Manucci (played by Scheider, a loose remake of the character of Buddy "Cloudy" Russo he played in [[The French Connection  has been getting flak from the higher-ups in the New York City police force he works for because his team of renegade policemen, known as The Seven-Ups  has been using unorthodox methods to capture criminals; this is illustrated as the team ransacks an antiques store that is a front for the running of counterfeit money. Also, lately, there has been a rash of kidnappings; the twist is that it seems that only upper echelon criminals  are the ones being kidnapped, illustrated when Max Kalish is kidnapped and a ransom is paid at a car wash. This leads to many plot twists in which Manucci tries to figure out the puzzle, with help supplied to him by an informant , who turns out to be untrustworthy, leading to the death of one of the Seven-Up officers. Manucci figures out the puzzle, but not before The Seven-Ups splinter from the fallout of the film's events, and Manucci's life is placed in jeopardy.The tourist spot Ocean Beach has come under attack by a giant octopus, which captures human swimmers and picks clean the skeletons of flesh and bone marrow. The attacks, which gradually increase in number as time passes, threaten to scare away the 10,000 tourists who visit Ocean Beach each summer. The characters determine that the excavation of an underwater tunnel has caused the giant octopus to rampage; the company, owned by Mr. Whitehead , has been using radio signals that have been "above regulated levels", and these have somehow enraged the octopus and caused it to attack human beings. In the end, the Octopus is killed by the killer whales when the main character goes out to sea in a sailing yacht, with the killer whales in tow.Spoiled, pompous, self-involved Henry Graham has a big problem: he has run through his entire inheritance and is completely unequipped to provide for himself. His childhood guardian, Uncle Harry, refuses to give him a dime. Henry, unwilling to exercise the only solution he can think of—suicide—devises a plan with the help of his imaginative butler Harold. He can obtain money the old-fashioned way—he can marry it. With a loan from Uncle Harry to tide him over, Henry has just six weeks to find a rich bride and repay the money. Otherwise he must forfeit all of his property to his uncle. Desperation sets in as Henry's attempts to meet a suitable mate all fail. With only days remaining on his deadline, Henry bumps into clumsy, painfully shy heiress Henrietta Lowell. She is the answer to his prayers. Henrietta's suspicious lawyer is a problem for Henry, as is his own distaste for marriage. He considers the latter to be a temporary inconvenience, however, since he plans to do away with his new wife as soon as possible. Murder never far from his mind, Henry takes charge of his wife's life. He reorganizes her household staff, which has been taking advantage of her timidity and naivete. Henrietta is completely disorganized and welcomes Henry's guidance. A botany professor, Henrietta discovers a new species of tree fern and names it after him. She loves Henry and invites him to join her on a canoe trip to a remote area. Henry sees his opportunity to rid himself of Henrietta forever, knowing she cannot swim. The plan works perfectly; the canoe overturns and Henrietta is swept away down the river. But as soon as Henry swims to safety, the first thing he finds is a tree fern of the type Henrietta named after him. At this moment he comes to the realization that he has fallen in love with his victim. He quickly rescues Henrietta and resigns himself to his unexpected fate as a happily married man.According to a myth, when snakes are of certain age, they can assume human form. Thus, the film begins with a male and a female in their human forms, singing and dancing amorously with each other. When the male turns back into a snake, he is shot by a member of a hunting party, who thought the snake was going to attack the woman. The rest of the story deals with the female taking revenge on the group of friends responsible for her lover's death.The story takes place on a Saturday in Anderson, a crime-infested ghetto in South Central Los Angeles. Members of a local gang, called 'Street Thunder', have recently stolen a large number of automatic rifles and pistols. The film begins the previous night, as a team of heavily armed LAPD officers ambush and kill several members of the gang. In the morning, the gang's warlords swear a blood oath of revenge, known as a "Cholo", against the police and the citizens of Los Angeles. During the day, three sequences of events occur in parallel in and around Anderson: *First, Lieutenant Ethan Bishop , a newly promoted CHP officer, is assigned to command the old Anderson police precinct on Gramercy during the last few hours before it is permanently closed. The station is manned by a skeleton staff composed of one officer, Sergeant Chaney , and the station's two secretaries, Leigh  and Julie . *Second, a member of Street Thunder shoots and kills a little girl and the driver of an ice-cream truck. The girl's father, Lawson, pursues and kills the hoodlum, whose fellow gang members chase the man into the Anderson precinct. In shock, he is unable to communicate to the officers what has happened to him. *Third, a prison bus commanded by Starker  stops at the station to find medical help for one of the three prisoners being transported. The prisoners are Napoleon Wilson , a convicted violent killer on his way to Death Row, Wells , and Caudell, the sick man. As the prisoners are put into jail cells, the telephone lines go dead, and when Starker prepares to put the prisoners back on the bus, the gang opens fire on the precinct, using weapons fitted with silencers. In seconds, they kill Chaney, the bus driver, Caudell, Starker, and the two officers with Starker. Bishop unchains Wilson from Starker's body and puts Wilson and Wells back into the cells. When the hoodlums cut the station's electricity and begin a second wave of shooting, Bishop sends Leigh to release Wells and Wilson, and they help Bishop and Leigh defend the station. Julie is killed in the firefight, and Wells is killed after being chosen to sneak out of the precinct through the sewer line. Meanwhile, the gang members remove all evidence of the skirmish in order to avoid attracting outside attention. Bishop hopes that someone has heard the unsilenced police weapons firing, but the neighborhood is too sparsely populated for nearby residents to pinpoint the location of the noise. As the gang rallies for a third assault, Wilson, Leigh, and Bishop retreat to the basement, taking the still-catatonic Lawson with them. In the climactic scene, the gang rushes the group's last stronghold and Bishop shoots a tank full of acetylene gas, which explodes violently, killing all the hoodlums. Finally, two police officers in a cruiser radio for backup after discovering the dead body of a telephone repairman hanging from a pole. When more police officers arrive and secure the station, they find the only survivors of the assault - Bishop, Leigh, Wilson, and Lawson. Bishop asks Wilson to walk out of the station with him, rather than be led away in chains.After having robbed a bank for $100,000 in gold bars, Dan Hogan  and his gang meet up at the Jackal's Ranch stage coach weigh station near the Mexican border, where Hogan's girlfriend Eleanor  is to surreptitiously bring their stolen gold to them. While they await her arrival, they encounter John Webb , a stranger who had shot the man who was to be their guide and who himself wants half their gold in exchange for leading them secretly into Mexico. Hogan agrees and the group takes off through the desert with the law close behind.London Mod Jimmy Cooper , disillusioned by his parents and a job as a post-room boy at an advertising firm, finds an outlet for his teenage angst with his Mod friends Dave , Chalky ([[Phil Davis  and Spider . One of the Mods' rivals, the Rockers, is in fact Jimmy's childhood friend, Kevin . An assault by aggressive Rockers on Spider leads to a serious unprovoked attack on a Rocker who, unbeknownst to Jimmy and his Mod mates, is Kevin. A bank holiday weekend provides an excuse for the rivalry between the Mods and Rockers to come to a head, as they both descend upon the seaside town of Brighton. A series of running battles ensues. As the police close in on the rioters, Jimmy escapes down an alleyway with Steph  — a girl on whom he has a crush — to have sex. When the pair emerge, they find themselves in the middle of the melee just as police are detaining rioters. Jimmy is arrested, detained with a violent, leading Mod he calls 'Ace Face' (played by [[Sting , and later fined the then-large sum of £50. When fined £75, Ace Face mocks the magistrate to the amusement of fellow Mods. Back in London, Jimmy becomes increasingly depressed. He is thrown out of his house by his mother, who finds his stash of amphetamine pills. He then quits his job, spends his severance package on more pills, and finds out that Steph has become the girlfriend of his friend Dave. After a brief fight with Dave, the following morning his rejection is confirmed by Steph and with his beloved Lambretta scooter accidentally destroyed, Jimmy takes a train back to Brighton. In an attempt to relive the recent excitement, he revisits the scenes of the riots and of his encounter with Steph, but then, to his horror, discovers that his idol, Ace Face, is in reality a lowly bellboy at a Brighton hotel. Jimmy steals Ace's scooter and heads out to Beachy Head, crashing it over a cliff.The film begins in the forest with shots of local wildlife, agitated and on alert, but the source is not seen on screen. The camera then switches to a first person view, hinting at an unseen presence and the scene culminates with the view of a large human-like creature's reflection at water's edge while a haunting wail echos through the forest. Opening credits are next, followed by a review of recent Bigfoot stories via newspaper clippings and narration. Next up is the well-known Patterson-Gimlin Film, shot by Roger Patterson on October 20, 1967, in Bluff Creek, CA which shows an ape-like creature walking along a dry creek bed. The narrator goes on to explain that by running statistical data through modern computers, a site in British Columbia has been determined as the most likely spot for a population of Sasquatch to live undisturbed. An expedition is mounted, hoping to verify the creature's existence and secure funding for future research into the phenomenon. The seven man team is composed of Native American guide Techka Blackhawk, seasoned wilderness explorer Josh Bigsby, wise-cracking reporter Bob Vernon, anthropologist Dr. Paul Markham, cook Barney Snipe, animal handler Hank Parshall and team leader Chuck Evans who also narrates the film. The team is on horseback and brings tracking dogs to aid in the hunt. As the film progresses, tales of Sasquatch encounters by earlier explorers are interwoven with the current expedition's adventure and told as campfire stories. These scenes are recreated by uncredited cast members and include the Ape Canyon incident in which miners are attacked while sleeping in their cabin and an encounter by early pioneer explorers Bauman and Jessup. Initially the expedition takes on the feel of a nature trek, but as we reach a scene where the team is traversing a hillside it takes on a more ominous feel. As rocks begin tumbling down towards them from above, Techka stops the caravan in time to avoid injuries but the cause of the rockslide is unknown. From this point on the film becomes more focused on its intended subject, the search for Bigfoot. After this incident the team feels they're being watched by 'someone or something' and everyone takes turns guarding the camp at night. One evening a bear attacks while they sleep and everyone is shaken up but none are seriously injured. On a subsequent evening the camp is once again attacked, but this time the lookout was able to scare off the attacker with gunshots. The following day they find large footprints in the areas surrounding the camp and employ the tracking dogs. While some team members take plaster molds of the tracks, Hank and his dogs follow a scent to the base of a sheer rock wall but cannot continue due to the difficult terrain. As the expedition nears their intended destination, they discover tall trees snapped in half well above human reach. Techka tells them its a sign the Sasquatch use to mark their territory and upon entering the valley, the team finds more footprints and sets up camp. They install a tripwire system around the perimeter and post lookouts. The team notes that the forest is eerily quiet that evening and well after dark, the inevitable happens. Multiple sensors begin to light up, the camp is attacked and we hear the same haunting wail as earlier. As the lookouts scramble for a clear shot with their tranquilizer guns, large boulders and branches are thrown in from multiple directions. Paul Markham is injured by one of the rocks and one of the shadowy creatures actually invades the camp and destroys most of the surveillance equipment. The attackers are eventually scared off and when daylight comes the team gets a good look at the devastation. There are many footprints around the camp but no signs of a dead or wounded Sasquatch. By now summer is almost over and winter storms are looming so the team packs up and begins their long trek back to civilization. In the final scene the camera pans out to a wide shot of the team departing, showcasing a picturesque view of the valley and its surrounding mountains. During the closing credits we see a large human-like silhouette, the same one seen in promotional movie posters, looking down at the camera from a hilltop as it slowly turns and walks away.The film jumps between various sections of Bruce's life, including scenes of when he was in his prime and the burned-out, strung-out performer who, in the twilight of his life, used his nightclub act to pour out his personal frustrations. We watch as up-and-coming Bruce courts his "Shiksa goddess", a stripper named Honey. With family responsibilities, Lenny is encouraged to do a "safe" act, but he cannot do it. Constantly in trouble for flouting obscenity laws, Lenny develops a near-messianic complex which fuels both his comedy genius and his talent for self-destruction. Worn out by a lifetime of tilting at Establishment windmills, Lenny Bruce dies of a morphine overdose in 1966.The Trans-America Grand Prix is an illegal race held every year between Los Angeles and New York City. Recently released from jail, where he was serving a sentence for killing a girl while driving drunk, racing driver Coy "Cannonball" Buckman  hopes to win the race and get his career back on track. Racing team Modern Motors have promised a contract to either him or his arch-rival Cade Redman  who is also in the race - the contract will go to whichever of them wins. Coy is still on probation and when his parole officer, Linda Maxwell , with whom he is having an affair, discovers he will be crossing state lines in violation of his parole, she attempts to stop him, only to have him force her to accompany him on the race. Redmond also has company in the form of country singer Perman Waters  and his manager Sharma Capri  who have agreed to pay Redmond's race expenses in return for his taking them with him to New York in his Dodge Charger. Other competitors include teenage surfer sweethearts Jim Crandell  and Maryann  driving Maryann's father's Chevrolet Corvette, middle-aged Terry McMillan in a Chevrolet Blazer, three sexy waitresses, Sandy , Ginny  and Wendy  in a souped up van, arrogant German driver Wolfe Messer  in a De Tomaso Pantera, preppy African-American Beutell  in a Lincoln Continental he has been hired by a wealthy elderly couple to transport to New York for them  and Buckman's best friend Zippo  in a Pontiac Trans Am identical to Coy's. Unbeknown to Coy, his brother Bennie  has bet heavily on the race and plans to use underhand methods to ensure Coy wins. As the race degenerates into a violent demolition derby, Messer is blown up by Bennie, while McMillan attempts to cheat by having his Blazer flown from LAX to New York's LaGuardia Airport where he waits out the race with his mistress Louisa . Beutell's borrowed Lincoln gets progressively more damaged as the race goes on, while Jim and Maryann face engine trouble with a broken fan belt. The rivalry between Coy and the increasingly-unstable Redman gets out of control as the two fight and attempt to force each other off the road, with Coy crashing his Trans Am after Redmond breaks the headlights. Switching to a 1969 Ford Mustang he borrows from some local hot-rodders, Coy has a last showdown with Redman, who has kicked Perman and Sharma out of his car after arguing with them. A piece of Perman's guitar, which Redmond smashed in a rage after getting sick of Perman's singing and on-the-road radio broadcasts, gets lodged behind the car pedals, causing Redmond to lose control and crash over the side of an unfinished bridge. He dies when the car explodes. Bennie meanwhile, has sent a gunman to kill the driver of the "other" red Trans Am as it is beating Coy. He is unaware that the driver is Zippo or that Linda is now riding with him, as Coy thought it safer for her to do so since Redman was after him. While with Zippo, she has found out that it was Zippo who was driving the car in which the girl was killed, not Coy. Coy took the blame because he knew the weaker Zippo would never survive in jail. Bennie's gunman shoots Zippo dead and the Trans Am crashes and explodes. Linda jumps clear, but is badly injured. Jim and Maryann see the wreck and pick up the comatose Linda, taking her to hospital. Behind them, the presence of the wrecked Trans Am on the freeway causes a multiple-car pileup. Terry McMillan and Louisa arrive first at the finish line, but Louisa lets slip that the Blazer was flown there and he is disqualified. The girls in the van and Coy are neck-and-neck as they cross into New York City  until Sandy attempts to take a shortcut when the girls get lost and are stuck in traffic and the van crashes. Coy arrives at the finish line and is about to stamp his timecard, making him the official winner, when he is told about Zippo and Linda's accident and realizes Bennie caused it. He tears up his timecard so it can't be stamped and gives the pieces to Bennie, who is taken away by gangster Lester Marks  to whom he owes all the money he bet on Coy, presumably to be killed. Assured of his racing contract, Coy is taken to the hospital to be reunited with Linda by the team manager. Having decided to finish the race in spite of believing they cannot win having lost so much time, Jim and Maryann are the next to arrive at the finish line. They are surprised and overjoyed to be told they are the winners of the $100,000 first place prize. At the hospital, Coy and Linda enjoy their reunion, while Beutell delivers the Lincoln - now completely wrecked - to its horrified owners in front of a hotel in the city.The film begins with Hercules at Olympus, berating his father Zeus for not allowing him to leave the gods' abode to adventure on earth. Eventually Zeus sends Hercules, on a beam, to the land of men. After some strange encounters in the air and at sea, Hercules arrives in New York City, where hilarity ensues in the form of interactions with various New Yorkers, who regard him as physically superior but socially awkward. He meets a skinny little guy called Pretzie . Hercules becomes a successful professional wrestler. Zeus, watching Hercules from the heights, becomes irritated with Hercules' antics, which he feels are making a mockery of the gods, and calls on Mercury to stop Hercules. After Mercury makes an unsuccessful attempt to bring Hercules home, Zeus orders Nemesis to see to it that Hercules is consigned to the infernal regions ruled over by Pluto. However, Juno instead convinces Nemesis to poison Hercules with a poison that would strip him of his divinity and then talk to Pluto. Nemesis informs Pluto of what is happening and he bets a large sum of money against Hercules in an upcoming strongman competition with Hercules' gangster manager. When Hercules loses the strongman competition his friends try to lead off Hercules' angry manager's henchmen, but Hercules follows them to save them. Meanwhile, Zeus uncovers the truth from Nemesis as to what is happening but only intervenes at the last minute to restore Hercules' divinity, not wanting any son of his to die at the hands of a mortal. Hercules defeats the gangsters and realizes that he has been disobedient and returns to the heavens shortly after, only saying good-bye to Pretzie over a radio after he leaves. In the heavens, Zeus tells Juno and Hercules that he is not going to punish Hercules for his behavior as they ask him about it and then asks to be left alone. They leave him alone, and upon their departure, Zeus sneaks out of the heavens and descends to earth, scaring a passenger jet on his way down.Kim Stacy and Morgan are two CIA agents on a secret mission to rescue a scientist imprisoned by terrorists on a remote island.The story begins at Los Angeles airport, where Dr. Richard Thorndyke  has several odd encounters. He leaves for the institute with his driver, Brophy ([[Ron Carey . Upon his arrival, he is greeted by the staff, Dr. Montague , Dr. Wentworth  and Nurse Diesel . When he goes to his room, a large rock is thrown through the window, with a message of welcome from the Violent Ward. Thorndyke then hears strange noises coming from Nurse Diesel's room and when he and Brophy go to investigate, Diesel claims it was the TV. However, it was a passionate session of BDSM with Dr. Montague. The next morning, he is alerted by a light shining through his window. It is coming from the violent ward. Later, Nurse Diesel is talking with Dr. Wentworth. He wants to leave, but she won't let him. However, after some arguing, she says she'll let him go. When Wentworth is driving home that night, his radio blasts rock music loudly and will not shut off. He is trapped in his car, and he dies from an ear hemorrhage. After this, Thorndyke goes to the grand hotel - the broad-atriumed, vertigo-inducing Hyatt Regency San Francisco, where much to his dismay he is relegated to a room on the top floor, due to a reservation mix-up. He pesters the bellboy  with repeated requests about getting a newspaper, wanting to look in the obituary for information concerning Dr. Wentworth's demise. He then takes a shower, during which the bellboy comes and in a frenzy mimics stabbing Thorndyke with the paper while screaming "Here's your paper! Happy now?! Happy?" The paper's ink runs down the drain, a reference to Psycho. After his shower, a woman bursts through the door; she is Victoria Brisbane , the daughter of Arthur Brisbane . She wants help regarding her father. He agrees to the terms, but then finds out Nurse Diesel's plot. The patient is not the real Arthur Brisbane. To stop Thorndyke, Diesel and Montague hire a killer, "Braces" , to impersonate Thorndyke and shoot a man in the lobby. Now with the police after him, he must prove his innocence. He contacts Brophy, and realizes Brophy took a picture of the shooting. The real Thorndyke was in the elevator at the time, so he should be in the picture. He orders Brophy to enlarge the picture. When he goes to call, "Braces" tries to strangle him; however, Thorndyke is able to kill him. Brophy enlarges the photo, and Thorndyke is indeed visible in the picture. Nurse Diesel and Montague capture Brophy and take him to the North Wing. They also take the real Arthur Brisbane to a tower to kill him. As Thorndyke runs up the tower to save him and Brisbane, Nurse Diesel leaps out from the shadows in a witch's costume with a broom, and falls out the tower window. Thinking she really is a witch, she tries to act like she's flying, ending in her crashing into the rocks below, thus killing her. Dr. Montague appears from the shadows and gives up before being hit in the head by the lighthouse trap door by Brophy. Victoria is reunited with her father and gets married to Thorndyke who go off on Honeymoon.A stranger on horseback rides into the mining town of Lago. Three gun-toting men follow him into the saloon, taunting him. When they follow him to the barbershop, he kills all three of them. Impressed with this performance, a dwarf named Mordecai befriends the Stranger. An attractive woman named Callie Travers bumps into him in the street and insults and badgers him. When she slaps him, he drags her into the livery stable and rapes her. Next, he rents a room at the hotel. That night, he dreams about a man being brutally whipped. It is revealed later that Marshal Jim Duncan was whipped to death by gunfighters Stacey Bridges, Dan Carlin, and Cole Carlin while the people of Lago looked on. Only Sarah Belding, wife of hotelier Lewis Belding, made any attempt to rescue him. The next day, Sheriff Shaw tells the stranger he will not be charged for killing the three men. Meanwhile, the townsmen discuss Bridges and the Carlin brothers, who are due to be released from prison that day. The town double-crossed the three gunfighters after they killed Duncan, and the men are expected to seek vengeance. Since the men slain by the Stranger were the mining company's new protectors, the townsmen decide to hire the Stranger as their replacement. Presenting the offer to the Stranger, Shaw explains that the three gunfighters were caught stealing gold from the mining company, although he admits the gold was poorly protected. The Stranger declines the job until Shaw tells him he can have anything he wants. Accepting these terms, the Stranger indulges in the town's goods and services, makes Mordecai both sheriff and mayor, has the entire town painted red, and paints the word "HELL" on the "LAGO" sign just outside of town. While the Stranger trains the townspeople to defend themselves, Bridges and the Carlin brothers are released from prison and make their way to Lago. They begin on foot but kill three men and take their horses. A group of men try to ambush the Stranger in the hotel, but he kills most of them. After Belding inadvertently divulges his complicity in the attack, which left the hotel destroyed, the Stranger drags Belding's wife into their room and she sleeps with him willingly. In the morning, the Stranger rides out and finds the gunfighters, has a brief shootout with them, and returns to Lago. With the town painted red, townsmen with rifles stationed on rooftops, and a picnic and welcoming banner set up for the gunfighters, the Stranger mounts his horse and rides away. When the gunfighters arrive, they encounter almost no resistance, and by nightfall they have the townspeople collected in the saloon. The Stranger returns and kills the gunfighters one by one. Mordecai shoots Belding when he attempts to shoot the Stranger in the back. The next day, the Stranger begins to ride out of the ruined town, as Mordecai carves a headstone for Duncan's grave. Mordecai comments to the departing Stranger that he never did know his name, to which the Stranger cryptically replies, "Yes, you do." He rides off into the distance, eventually seeming to vanish.Dirk Bogarde plays Maximilian Theo Aldorfer, a former Nazi SS officer, and Charlotte Rampling plays Lucia Atherton, a concentration camp survivor who had an ambiguous relationship with Aldorfer. Flashbacks show Max tormenting Lucia, but also acting as her protector. In an iconic scene, Lucia sings a Marlene Dietrich song to the concentration camp guards while wearing pieces of an SS uniform, and Max "rewards" her with the severed head of a male inmate who had been bullying the other inmates, a reference to Salome. Thirteen years after World War II, Lucia meets Aldorfer again; he is now the night porter at a Vienna hotel. There, they fall back into their sadomasochistic relationship.A bleak story that depicts an outwardly successful man questioning the value of the material prosperity he is desperately trying to maintain, it follows the uncertain path of Dibyalochan Sahoo, the real tiger , an executive at an apparel company close to ruin. With no legal way to keep the company from going under, Stoner considers torching his warehouse for the insurance settlement. Meanwhile, he drinks, laments the state of the world, and tries his best to keep the business rolling as usual. This last task is complicated when a client has a heart attack in the arms of a prostitute provided by Stoner. With nerves still shaky, Stoner takes the stage at the premiere of his company's new line, only to be overcome by war memories. He ends the day spontaneously deciding to go home with a young, free-spirited hitchhiker, whose ignorance of his generation underscores his isolation from the world around him. At the end of the film, Stoner agrees to the warehouse getting torched and then walks by a Little League game and attempts to act as pitcher to the children. One child shouts out, "You can't play with us, Mister!", leaving Stoner yet again isolated from another part of society.Stationed in Norfolk, Virginia, U.S. Navy sailors, Billy "Badass" Buddusky  and "Mule" Mulhall  are assigned shore patrol detail to escort young sailor Larry Meadows  to Portsmouth Naval Prison near Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Meadows has drawn a stiff eight-year sentence for a petty crime: trying to steal $40 from a mite box of the C.O.'s wife's favorite charity. During their train trip up the northeast corridor, the oddly likeable Meadows begins to grow on the two Navy "lifers"; they know the grim reality of the Marine guards at Portsmouth, and feel sorry he'll miss his youth serving his sentence. They decide to show him a good time before delivering him to the brig. With several days to spare before they are due in Portsmouth, the trio detrains at the major cities along the route to provide bon-voyage adventures for Meadows. In Washington, they take him to a bar to have a beer, but are denied because Meadows is too young. Buddusky gets a few six packs and a hotel room, and the three get drunk. In Philadelphia, they seek out Meadows's mother, only to find her away for the day and the house cluttered with empty whiskey bottles. In New York, they take him ice skating at Rockefeller Center and then in Boston, to a brothel to lose his virginity. In between, they brawl with Marines in a public restroom, dine on "the world's finest" Italian sausage sandwich, chant with Nichiren Shōshū Buddhists and open intimate windows for each other in swaying train coaches. Meadows pronounces his several days with Badass and Mule to be the best of his whole life. When they finally arrive in frozen Portsmouth, Meadows has a final request – a picnic – so they buy some hot dogs and attempt a frigid picnic in the crunching snow. Docile Meadows walks along the park, seemingly ready to head to prison. He suddenly bolts, though, in a last-ditch effort to run away. Buddusky runs after him, catches him, and pistol-whips him fiercely. Mulhall and Buddusky then brusquely take Meadows to the prison, execute the Navy paperwork, and after being released from their detail, they stride away angrily, berating the marines they have encountered at the prison – and about how hopefully their orders will come through when they get back to Norfolk.Youngman Duran, a deputy on a Hopi Indian reservation in New Mexico, begins to investigate a series of mysterious cattle mutilations. Abner Tasupi, an ancient and embittered medicine man who raised Youngman after his parents died, tells him he has cast a spell to end the world that very night, but Youngman assumes he simply is babbling while under the influence of datura root. The following morning, Youngman finds Abner's bloodless body on the floor of his shack, and nearby he discovers a dead shepherd and most of his flock. Tribal Council chairman Walker Chee has discovered a stratum of oil shales in Maskai Canyon, the most sacred ground in the tribe's domain. Walker is dynamiting the caves in an effort to unleash oil, and is planning to sell the rights to process them to the tycoon Roger Piggott of Peabody Oil. Walker is desperate to keep word of the attacks from leaking to the media before he completes the deal. Although common sense tells him otherwise, Youngman's faith in tribal beliefs and superstitions leads him to suspect the unexplained deaths may be connected to the spell Abner claimed he cast. British scientist Philip Payne is certain they are the work of vampire bats infected with bubonic plague. As they spread throughout the area, swarming through a missionary group's campsite and infecting everyone in their path, Philip and Youngman join forces with Anne Dillon, a young white medical student who runs a ramshackle clinic on the reservation and is in love with Youngman, to track the bats to their lair and destroy them.Giant insectoid aliens from a dying planet in "Space Hunter Nebula-M" plot to colonize the Earth. The aliens assume the forms of dead humans and work as the development staff of the peace-themed theme park, World Children's Land, the centerpiece of which is "Godzilla Tower". The Nebula-M aliens plan to use the space monsters Gigan and King Ghidorah, guided by two "Action Signal Tapes," to wipe out human civilization. Manga artist Gengo Kotaka stumbles onto their plan after being hired as a concept artist for the park. When Gengo and his friends accidentally obtain one of the Action Signal Tapes and play it, Godzilla and Anguirus hear the signal and realize something is amiss. Godzilla sends Anguirus to investigate. When Anguirus approaches Tokyo, the Japan Self Defense Forces, misunderstanding the monster's intentions, drives him away. Anguirus reports back to Monster Island, and Godzilla follows him back to Japan to save the Earth from Gigan and King Ghidorah. The aliens attempt to kill Godzilla with a lethal laser cannon hidden inside Godzilla Tower, but Gengo and his companions destroy the tower along with the aliens. After a lengthy fight, Godzilla and Anguirus force Gigan and King Ghidorah back into space and then Godzilla and Anguirus swim back to Monster Island, but not before Godzilla turns around and gives a roar of triumph.The Arena, set in the ancient Roman town of Brundusium, is about a group of slave girls who are sold to a man named Timarchus , the organizer of the events that take place in the town’s colosseum. After a fight breaks out amongst the girls, Timarchus gets the idea of putting the women in the ring to fight to the death. The recently captured Mamawi  and Bodicia  realize they must stick together if they are to survive.The evil wizard king Winterbolt has caused havoc upon the people who have entered his domain. He is then punished by Lady Boreal when she places a spell on him that puts him in a deep sleep. Years later, Winterbolt awakens. In her final act of magic, Boreal transfers the last of her power into Rudolph's red nose, which will stop glowing if it is ever used for evil. Winterbolt learns of this through his "genie of the ice scepter" and plans not only to dispose of Rudolph, the only power capable of stopping him, but also to reclaim his territory from Santa Claus. To achieve this, Winterbolt plans to take advantage of Frosty and his family. At the same time, Rudolph's ice cream man friend Milton arrives and tells Rudolph and Frosty that he plans to attract the heart of his girlfriend, the high-wire act Laine Loraine. Winterbolt offers Frosty magic amulets that will keep his family from melting and enable them to attend a Fourth of July Circus in which Rudolph is to star, but they will only be protected until the end of the event. Santa agrees to pick up Frosty and his wife Crystal before the magic wears off, but Winterbolt has his ice dragons create a blizzard to prevent Santa from arriving on time. Winterbolt also gets some "reinsnakes" and goes to the Cave of Lost Rejections and recruits an unintelligent reindeer named Scratcher  to try to get Rudolph to turn, or at least appear, evil in the eyes of his friends. With the blizzard keeping Santa from getting to them, time was not on the side of Frosty and family. When Scratcher arrives, he forms an alliance with Sam Spangles during the parade. Scratcher, taking advantage of Rudolph's kindness, steals money from the circus and sets up Rudolph to take the blame. Rudolph agrees to appear guilty after making a deal with Winterbolt, to extend the powers of the amulets Frosty's family wears for an infinite time in exchange. Frosty's family, friends, and the circus' owner , Lilly Loraine, are upset when Rudolph lies to them about how he stole the money and his nose stops glowing. Only Frosty knows the truth and wants to restore Rudolph's glowing nose. Winterbolt takes advantage of Frosty as well by lying and agreeing to do it in exchange for Frosty's hat, with the intention of using the magic powers of Frosty's hat to create an army of evil snowmen. Rudolph manages to steal back the hat, and his nose regains its glow. After Rudolph returns to the circus with Frosty's hat, Winterbolt attacks, which ends with him turning into a tree when Lilly throws her guns at his scepter destroying it. Once Winterbolt is vanquished, Scratcher disappears, Sam is arrested, and all the spells he cast are negated and Frosty and his family are in danger of melting once again. However, Jack Frost, the villain from the previous Frosty's Winter Wonderland, arrives on Big Ben, who's Rudolph's whale friend from the previous Rudolph's Shiny New Year, to rescue his former enemy and family as they are whisked back to the North Pole by Santa, but Rudolph stays behind to help the circus out of debt. The special ends with a rendition of "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer", sung by Ethel Merman.Harry Graham  is a lonely and beaten down man who has recently been released from prison, serving time for murdering his wife many years ago. His son Jimmy  is after him seeking justice for his mother's murder. Jimmy tracks Harry down to a run-down seashore community where he is now eking out a living in a trailer park with his girlfriend Jenny . When Jimmy at last confronts his father face to face, they both know they have to deal with many unresolved emotional barriers in their relationship.Baron von Frankenstein neglects his duties towards his wife/sister Katrin, as he is obsessed with creating a perfect Serbian race to obey his commands, beginning by assembling a perfect male and female from parts of corpses. The doctor's sublimation of his sexual urges by his powerful urge for domination is shown when he utilizes the surgical wounds of his female creation to satisfy his lust. He is dissatisfied with the inadequate reproductive urges of his current male creation, and seeks a head donor with a greater libido; he also repeatedly exhibits an intense interest that the creature's "nasum"  have a correctly Serbian shape.IMDB.com As it happens, a suitably randy farmhand, Nicholas, leaving a local brothel along with his sexually repressed friend, brought there in an unsuccessful attempt to dissuade him from entering a monastery, are spotted and waylaid by the doctor and his henchman, Otto; mistakenly assuming that the prospective monk is also suitable for stud duty, they take his head for use on the male creature. Not knowing these behind-the-scene details, Nicholas survives and finds his way to the castle, where he is befriended by Katrin; they form an agreement for him to gratify her unsatisfied carnal appetites. Under the control of the doctor, the male and female creatures are seated for dinner with the castle's residents, but the male creature shows no signs of recognition of his friend as he serves the Baron and his family. Nicholas realizes at this point that something is awry, but himself pretends not to recognize his friend's face until he can investigate further. After a falling-out with Katrin, who is merely concerned with her own needs, Nicholas is captured by the doctor while snooping in the laboratory; the doctor muses about using his new acquisition to replace the head of his creature, who is still showing no signs of libido. Nevertheless, Katrin is rewarded for betraying Nicholas by being granted use of the creature for erotic purposes, but is killed during a bout of overly vigorous copulation. Meanwhile, Otto repeats the doctor's sexual exploits with the female creature, resulting in her graphic disembowelment. The Baron returns and, enraged, does away with Otto; when he attempts to have the male creature eliminate Nicholas, however, the remnants of his friend's personality rebel and the doctor is killed instead in gruesome fashion. The creature, believing he is better off dead, then disembowels himself. The doctor's children, Erik and Monica, then enter the laboratory, pick up a pair of scalpels, and proceed to turn the wheel of the crane that is holding the farmhand in mid-air. It is not clear if the scalpels are there in order to release him, or take over where their father left off.The film focuses on the lives of a variety of characters who happen to live in a rubbish dump. The first to be introduced is a mentally challenged boy who lives in a world of fantasy in which he is a tram conductor. He is both the tram and the tram driver and follows a set route and schedule through the dump; his dedication to the fantasy is fanatical. The film title refers to a Japanese onomatopoeia for the sound made by a tram or train while in motion . The sound is made by the boy as he makes his daily faux-tram route through the dump.{{plot}} The story follows music composer/singer Winslow Leach ([[William Finley , who is seen by satanic record producer Swan ([[Paul Williams  during his performance as a back-up act to the nostalgia band The Juicy Fruits, whom Swan produces. Swan is deeply moved by Winslow's song, and, deeming Winslow's music as the perfect music to open "The Paradise" – Swan's highly anticipated new concert hall – has his right-hand man Arnold Philbin  steal it. When Winslow arrives at Death Records, Swan's record label, he is thrown out. When he sneaks into "The Swanage", Swan's private mansion, to find out what's going on, he observes several women all rehearsing his music for an audition. One of them is Phoenix , an aspiring singer, whom Winslow deems perfect for his music and the two quickly fall for one another. Winslow is told of Swan's plan to open the Paradise with Winslow's music. When Winslow sneaks in once more, Swan orders he be thrown out again and for his minions to beat up Winslow and frame him for drug dealing. Winslow is given a life sentence in Sing Sing Prison. In prison, Winslow's teeth are extracted as part of an experimental prisoner program funded by the Swan Foundation. His teeth are now replaced with shiny metal ones. Six months later, Winslow hears on the radio, while assembling tiddlywinks games in the prison rehab center, that The Juicy Fruits, whom he hates, have made an anticipated hit record of his music with Swan's backing. Winslow goes berserk, punches out a guard and escapes from prison in a delivery box driven off prison property. He breaks into the Death Records building and tears the place up. He then breaks into Swan's record factory where he sets out to destroy a record press. When a guard catches him fiddling with the record press, Winslow slips and the record press catches his sleeve, tumbling him head first into the record press which crushes and burns his face and destroys his vocal cords. Bleeding profusely and with his face now severely mutilated, a very disoriented Winslow makes his way to the edge of the East River and tumbles into the water. The newspaper reports the details of the night and that his body was not recovered. Sneaking into the Paradise, Winslow makes his way into the costume department where he dons a black leather costume, a long, black cape  and a silver, owl-like mask to cover his now scarred face, becoming the Phantom of the Paradise so he can terrorize Swan and his musicians. He plants a time bomb on a prop car and nearly kills The Beach Bums . Swan, seeing the Phantom on a security camera, realizes there is an intruder about. The Phantom confronts Swan who recognizes him as Winslow. Swan offers the composer the chance to have his music produced his way. Auditions are held and the Phantom selects Phoenix. Later, in a secluded recording studio, Swan provides the Phantom with an electronic voice-box, enabling him to speak and sing (but with the voice of [[Paul Williams . Swan asks the Phantom to rewrite his cantata for Phoenix. The Phantom reluctantly agrees on the condition that Phoenix is the lead singer and that Swan plays "what I write!" Swan promises and the Phantom signs a contract in blood. Swan is later shown bitterly listening to the recording session with Winslow: while he sounded normal at the time, the tapes mysterious play back Swan's voice as ragged, wicked and monstrous-sounding. While the Phantom remains in the recording studio rewriting his cantata, Swan breaks the deal by telling Philbin that he resents Phoenix's "perfection" for the lead role: "You know how I abhor perfection in anyone but myself." Swan puts a pill-popping, effeminate male glam rock prima uomo simply dubbed "Beef"  in the lead of Winslow's Faust with Phoenix as a backup singer. Beef is revealed to the media at a press conference where all cameras and recording devices are strictly banned, as per Swan's policy. After days of isolation, the Phantom completes Faust, Swan having gotten him hooked on uppers in the process. Swan steals the completed cantata while ordering his minions to seal the Phantom up inside the recording studio with a brick wall. However, when the Phantom awakens that night to realizes he has been betrayed again he manages to escape in a fit of fury. The Phantom then confronts Beef (in a comic allusion to the shower scene in [[Psycho  and threatens to kill him if he performs. Beef tries to flee, but is stopped by Philbin, who suggests to Beef that it was all a drug-induced hallucination. Onstage the glam-rock band The Undeads , costumed to resemble the sonambulist from The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, sing of the ultimate man, appearing to dismember audience members  and making a show of appearing to turn the parts into Beef, now costumed as a glitter-clad Frankenstein's monster. As Beef performs a completely rewritten glam-rock version of Winslow's "Old Souls", the Phantom, hidden in the rafters, strikes and electrocutes Beef  with a lightning-bolt-shaped neon sign. Horrified, Philbin orders Phoenix onstage as a replacement. Phoenix, singing the true version of Winslow's music at last, is an immediate sensation with the audience. As they continue to cheer for Beef outside as his dead body is loaded into an ambulance, Swan now realizes the potential of the situation. In Phoenix's dressing room, Swan arrives and seduces Phoenix, telling her of her future stardom. As she leaves, she is nearly overwhelmed by the zealous crowd, but is quickly carted away by the Phantom. On the roof, the Phantom tells Phoenix his true identity. He implores Phoenix to leave the Paradise so Swan won't destroy her like he has destroyed everything else. Phoenix does not believe him and, fearing the Phantom, flees. At the Swanage, the Phantom observes Swan and Phoenix locked in a tight embrace. Heartbroken, he commits suicide by stabbing himself through the heart with his own knife. However, the Phantom awakens from death to see Swan standing over him. Pulling the knife out, Swan tells the Phantom that he cannot die because he is locked to the blood contract he had signed earlier: The Phantom cannot die until Swan himself has died. With that knowledge, the Phantom attempts to stab Swan through the heart, but Swan is unharmed and merely pulls the knife away replying, "I'm under contract, too!" Rolling Stone announces the upcoming wedding between Swan and Phoenix during Faust{{'}}s finale. While everyone prepares, the Phantom sneaks into Swan's private taping room to watch the tape containing the blood contract. Watching the tape, the Phantom then learns that Swan made a pact with the devil over twenty years ago: Swan will remain youthful forever unless the videotaped recording of his contract is destroyed. Future photos, videos and recordings of Swan will age and fester in his place, explaining why he abhors being caught on film. The tape goes on to reveal footage of Winslow signing his contract with Swan and finally a new one Swan made with Phoenix when she was stoned, promising him "her voice" upon her death . Then, on a live TV camera, the Phantom observes a hit man assembling a rifle and realizes Swan is planning to have Phoenix assassinated during the ceremony. The Phantom destroys all the recordings by setting them on fire and heads off to the wedding between Phoenix and Swan. The wedding is in full swing onstage, with Philbin officiating and Swan wearing gloves and a silver mask of his own face to prevent being properly filmed. The Phantom manages to throw off the assassin's aim to stop him from hitting Phoenix, causing him to shoot and kill Philbin instead. With the tapes destroyed and Swan now mortal once again, the Phantom swings down onto the stage and rips off Swan's mask, finally exposing him as a monster on live television. Swan's face is now hideous, burning away like the tapes and contracts. Realizing what's happening, a crazed Swan gropes for Phoenix's throat, demanding she give him her voice, beginning to strangle her. The Phantom intervenes and stabs Swan repeatedly in the chest with the metal beak of a backup dancer's bird-shaped headpiece. The moment he does, his own fatal wound reopens. As he is dying, Swan is carried around by the audience, who are driven to the point of hysteria and join in stabbing him. The dying Winslow also removes his mask to reveal his own face, and cheered on by the crowd, crawls on the floor towards the shocked Phoenix. Just as he holds out a hand to her, Swan dies, allowing Winslow to die of his own wound. As Winslow collapses, Phoenix finally recognizes him as the kind man she met in line. Phoenix rushes over and lies down next to him, crying and heartbroken as the audience raves. The closing credits feature a series of montages of the cast members, identifying each by name, commencing with the musical trio and concluding with Winslow/The Phantom. Most of the shots in these montages are from the film, but there are also several from outtakes.The premise involves two street racers  who live on the road in their highly-modified 1955 Chevy "One-Fifty" two-door sedan and drift from town to town, making their income by challenging local residents to races. The movie follows them driving east on Route 66 from Needles, California. They pick up a female hitchhiker in Flagstaff, Arizona , although it is more accurate to say that she picks them up by simply getting into their car. In New Mexico, they encounter another car driver . An atmosphere of hostility develops between the two parties. Although Oates is not an overt street racer, and, in fact, seems to know little about cars, a cross-country race to Washington, D.C. is suggested. Taylor proposes that the prize should be "for pinks," or legal ownership of the loser's car. Characters are never identified by name in the movie; instead they are named "The Driver," "The Mechanic," "GTO," and "The Girl". The movie follows the group east through small towns in California, Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Arkansas, and Tennessee, but no character makes it to Washington, D.C. during the film. After sleeping with both the Driver and the Mechanic during the journey, the Girl disappoints them by abruptly leaving with the GTO while they compete at a racetrack in Memphis. The Driver pursues them intently, finding them at a diner where the Girl has just rejected the GTO's idea to visit Chicago. The Driver proposes going to Columbus, Ohio to get parts, but the Girl rejects him. She hops on the back of a stranger's motorcycle, dropping her bag in the parking lot. The three men abruptly depart from the diner in their respective cars. The driver of the GTO, who has told a different story about himself to each of the many hitchhikers he picked up , stops for two soldiers on leave. He tells his passengers that he won the car while driving a home-built '55 Chevy, emphasizing the circular nature of the film. The film ends during a drag race at an airstrip in East Tennessee. As the Driver speeds down the runway, first the sound drops out, then the film slows until the frames of the film seem to catch in the projector's gate, burning it.The movie follows Joe , a heroin addict, throughout his quest to score more drugs. The episodic plot occurs over a single day and centers around Joe's problematic relationship with his on-off, sexually frustrated girlfriend . During the course of the day, Joe overdoses in front of an upper-class couple, attempts to fool Welfare into approving his methadone treatment by having Holly fake a pregnancy, and frustrates the women in his life with his drug-induced impotence.A fictitious scientist called Dr. Nils Hellstrom  guides viewers throughout the film. He claims, on the basis of scientific-sounding theories, that insects will ultimately win the fight for survival on planet Earth because of their adaptability and ability to reproduce rapidly, and that the human race will lose this fight largely because of excessive individualism. The film combines short clips from horror and science fiction movies with extraordinary camera sequences of butterflies, locusts, wasps, termites, ants, mayflies, other insects rarely seen before on film and insectivorous plants/insects.Continuing after the end of Godzilla vs. Mechagodzilla, Interpol agents, led by Inspector Kusaka, search for the wreck of Mechagodzilla at the bottom of the Okinawan Sea. Using the submarine, Akatsuki, they hope to gather information on the robot's builders, the alien simians. The Akatsuki is suddenly attacked by a giant aquatic dinosaur called Titanosaurus, and the crew is apparently lost. Interpol starts an investigation into the incident. With the help of marine biologist Akira Ichinose, they trace the Titanosaurus to a reclusive, mad scientist named Shinzô Mafune, who wants to destroy all mankind. While Ichinose is visiting his old home in the seaside forest of Manazuru, they meet Mafune's lone daughter, Katsura. She tells them that not only is her father dead, but she burned all of the notes about the giant dinosaur . Unbeknownst to them, Mafune is still alive and well. He is visited by his friend Tsuda, who is an aide to the simian alien leader Mugal. He is leading the project to quickly rebuild Mechagodzilla. Mugal offers their services to Mafune, so that his Titanosaurus and their Mechagodzilla 2 will be the ultimate weapons. They hope to wipe out mankind and rebuild the world for themselves. But things are complicated for both factions when Ichinose falls in love with Katsura and unwittingly gives her Interpol's information against Titanosaurus, the new Mechagodzilla, and the aliens. It's also discovered that Katsura is actually a cyborg and Mugal still has uses for her. Meanwhile, Mafune is desperate to unleash Titanosaurus without the aliens' permission, so he releases it on Yokosuka one night. By then, Interpol discovers that supersonic waves are the Titanosaurus' weakness. They had a supersonic wave oscillator ready, but Katsura sabotaged the machine before they could use it. Fortunately, Godzilla arrives to fight off Titanosaurus. Later, when Ichinose visits Katsura, he is captured by the aliens. Tied to a chair, Ichinose can only watch as Mafune and the aliens unleash Mechagodzilla and Titanosaurus on Yokosuka, while Interpol struggles to repair their sonic wave machine and the Japanese armed forces struggle to keep the two monsters at bay. Katsura, while being controlled by Mugal, ignores Ichinose and controls both the dinosaur and the robot as they destroy the city. Godzilla comes to the rescue, though he is outmatched by the two titans. While Interpol distracts Titanosaurus with the supersonic wave oscillator, Godzilla is able to focus on attacking Mechagodzilla. Interpol agents infiltrate the aliens' hideout, rescue Ichinose, and kill Mafune and many of the aliens. The remaining aliens attempt to escape in their ship, but Godzilla shoots them down. Katsura, while being embraced by Ichinose, shoots herself to destroy Mechagodzilla. Godzilla, with the help of the oscillator, defeats Titanosaurus  and heads back to sea.For years, Seatopia, the undersea civilization, has been heavily affected by nuclear testing conducted by the surface nations of the world. Upset by this, they plan to unleash their civilization's god, Megalon, to the surface to destroy the world out of vengeance. On the surface, an inventor named Goro Ibuki, his nephew Rokuro and their friend Hiroshi Jinkawa are off on an outing near a lake when Seatopia makes itself known to the Earth by drying up the lake the trio was relaxing nearby and using it as a base of operation  As they return home they are ambushed by agents of Seatopia who are trying to steal Jet Jaguar, a humanoid robot under construction by the trio of inventors. However the Agents' first attempt is botched and they are forced to flee to safety. Some time later, Jet Jaguar is completed but the trio of inventors are knocked unconscious by the returning seatopian agents. The agents's plan is to use Jet Jaguar to guide and direct Megalon to destroy whatever city Seatopia commands. Goro and Rokuro are sent to be killed, while Hiroshi is taken hostage. Megalon is finally released to the surface while Jet Jaguar is put under the control of the Seatopians and is used to guide Megalon to attack Tokyo with the Japan Self Defense Forces failing to defeat the monster. Eventually, the trio of heroes manage to escape their situation with the Seatopians and reunite to devise a plan to send Jet Jaguar to get Godzilla's help using Jet Jaguar's secondary control system. After uniting with Japan's Defense Force, Goro manages to regain control of Jet Jaguar and sends the robot to Monster Island to bring Godzilla to fight Megalon. Without a guide to control its actions, Megalon flails around relentlessly and aimlessly fighting with the Defense Force and destroying the outskirts of Tokyo. The Seatopians learn of Jet Jaguar's turn and thus send out a distress call to the Nebula M aliens  to send Gigan to assist them. As Godzilla journeys to fight Megalon, Jet Jaguar programs into a safeguard mode and grows to gigantic proportions to face Megalon himself until Godzilla arrives. The battle is roughly at a standstill between robot and monster, until Gigan arrives and both Megalon and Gigan double team Jet Jaguar. Godzilla finally arrives to assist Jet Jaguar and the odds become evened. After a long and brutal fight, Gigan and Megalon both retreat and Godzilla and Jet Jaguar shake hands on a job well done. Godzilla returns to Monster Island, and Jet Jaguar returns to his previous, human-sized state and reunites with his inventors.{{Incomplete}} Picking up where the original left off, narcotics officer Jimmy "Popeye" Doyle  is still searching for the elusive drug kingpin Alain Charnier . Orders from the captain send Doyle to Marseille, France, to track down the criminal mastermind and bust his drug ring. Once in France, Doyle is met by Inspector Henri Barthélémy , who resents his rude and crude crimefighting demeanor. Doyle then begins to find himself as a fish out of water in France, where he is matched with a language he cannot understand. Doyle is shown round the police station where he finds his desk is situated directly outside the gents toilets. He tells Barthélémy that he is not satisfied with this positioning and hopes it is not a joke at his expense. Barthélémy informs Doyle that he has read his 'file' and is aware of his reputation in USA and especially hopes he has not brought a gun with him as it is strictly forbidden in France for visiting police officers from other countries to carry firearms. Doyle continues to struggle with the language and tries to order drinks in a bar. He eventually makes himself understood, befriending the barman in a local bar buying him drinks and they eventually stumble out of the bar together at closing time. Determined to find Charnier on his own, Popeye escapes his French escorts. While watching a beach volleyball match Charnier 'makes' him as he is situated in a restaurant below. Charnier sends his henchmen to follow Doyle through the town and after a short game of cat and mouse they capture him and take him to a nearby hotel for interrogation. For several weeks, Doyle is injected with heroin in effort to force him into capitulation. Scenes of his growing addiction follow, including one in which when an elderly lady visits him in his befuddled state. She talks to him, declaring herself to be English, and how her son is "just like" him, while stroking his arm. Initially she seems compassionate to his plight, but a change in the camera angle reveals her 'track' marks and that she is slowly removing his expensive-looking watch. Barthélémy has sent police to search for Doyle and as the raids close in on where Doyle is detained, he is dumped barely alive but addicted in front of police headquarters. Gritty scenes of resuscitation and drug reversal follow. In effort to save both his life and his reputation, Barthélémy immediately quarantines the abused and humiliated Doyle in the police cells and begins a long and agonizing cold turkey withdrawal from the heroin. Supervising his cure, and at his side with both emotional support and taunts questioning his toughness, Barthélemy ensures Doyle completes the cycle of physical withdrawal. When at length, well enough to be on his feet, Doyle starts back on the road to regaining his physical fitness. He searches Marseillles and finds the hideout/drug warehouse he was brought to  and sets it on fire. Doyle breaks into a room at the hotel and finds Charnier's henchmen whom he interrogates as to the whereabouts of Charnier. Doyle is joined by Barthelemy and other inspectors. The raid on Charnier and his henchmen is successful, but Charnier escapes. Doyle, in an epic foot chase of Charnier sailing out of Marseille Harbor on his yacht, takes his gun out, calls his name, and finally shoots Charnier dead.Set in South America, it tells the tale of a rich playboy, Dax   who uses and destroys everyone who crosses his path. His vileness results from having seen his mother and sister raped and murdered by outlaws, and him being forced to kill his own grandfather. But his obsession is to avenge his father's murder. And yet, the father of Dax had been a true patriot unlike any of the other self-seeking Presidentes in an otherwise poor country always belonging to "the revolution." After Dax is himself shot and dies below a statue erected to exploit the memory of his father, Xenos finally realizes he loved his country but had failed both his country and to be the man his father was.Vincent Karbone is a leading construction magnate in Philadelphia and a suspected leader of one of the city's most notorious criminal gangs. Several of his thugs are on trial, and the key witness is Michael, a mild-mannered judo instructor with a wife and kids. Karbone will stop at nothing to keep the muscles of his organization out of prison, including striking at Michael's family to keep him from testifying.Plot Summary for Breaking Point - http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0074238/plotsummaryThe film portrays the hopelessness of the middle-class, educated, urban youth in modern India. After making numerous unsuccessful attempts to find a job Somnath , the central protagonist , finally decides to start his own business as a middle-man - i.e. someone who supplies an order in exchange for a fixed commission. In spite of his ambition, he soon however finds himself involved in petty dealings, which appear unsatisfactory to him. His friend Sukumar, having gone through similar ordeals but finally being unable to land a job, becomes a taxi-driver. One day, Somnath finds that in order to land a big order, he must appease a client by supplying him with a prostitute. Despite his tremendous hesitation and after trying several brothels, Somnath finds a girl for the purpose. However, she turns out to be his friend Sukumar's younger sister. Embarrassed and at a complete loss, Somnath offers her money and requests her to leave, but the girl refuses. Her purpose is to earn money, not beg, she tells him. Somnath delivers her to his client and lands the contract but suffers internally.Inspector Betti  is transferred to Naples and immediately after his arrival receives a warm welcome from The Commandante ([[Barry Sullivan , the city's crime lord. Betti then goes on a personal mission against corruption and organized crime, and tries to force the syndicate out of town with any means necessary.Trappers with government support force the Yellow Hands Sioux off their sacred land. The Indians retreat, but await supernatural punishment to descend on their usurpers. Harris reprises his role as John Morgan, 8th Earl of Kildare, who had lived with the tribe for years and is known as Horse, leaves his English fiancé and estate and returns to America, where he discovers the Yellow Hand people have been largely massacred or put into slavery by the unscrupulous white traders and their Indian cohorts. The few survivors, including wise old Running Bull and stubborn old Elk Woman  have gone into the Badlands and been forced to eat their dogs. "Why did you return?" asks Elk Woman. "I had to come back," says Morgan. "I had to prove something to myself... there was an empty place in my soul. I could not forget." He finds the tribe dispirited, because of the actions of the trappers, and he begins to devise a strategy to overpower the trappers' stronghold, convincing the Indians to take direct action. Soon even the Indian women and boys are assigned tasks to aid the assault on regaining their ancestral land.In this final film in the series, Baron Victor Frankenstein  is housed at an insane asylum. He has been made a surgeon at the asylum, and has a number of privileges, as he holds secret information on the asylum's corrupt director ([[John Stratton . The Baron, under the alias of Dr. Carl Victor, uses his position to continue his experiments in the creation of man. When Simon Helder , a young doctor and fan of the Baron's work, arrives as an inmate, the Baron takes him under his wing as an apprentice. Together they work on a new creature. Unbeknownst to Simon, however, Frankenstein is acquiring body parts by murdering his patients. The Baron's new experiment is the hulking, ape-like Herr Schneider , a homicidal inmate whom he has kept alive after a violent suicide attempt and on whom he has grafted the hands of a recently deceased sculptor . Since Frankenstein's hands were badly burned in the name of science , the shabby stitch-work was done by Sarah , a beautiful mute girl who assists the surgeon, and who is nicknamed "Angel". Simon tells the Baron that he is a surgeon, and the problem is solved. Soon new eyes and a new brain are given to the creature in horror gore fashion. When the creature - lumbering, hirsute and dumb - is complete, it is bitter and intent on revenge. It ultimately runs amuck in the insane asylum, until it is eventually overpowered and destroyed by a mob of inmates. Simon is devastated by the loss of life and reports to Frankenstein; however, the Baron feels that it was the best that could happen to such a creature, and is already considering a new experiment with other involuntary donors.A Secret Service agent  barely escapes from an English country house, in which satanic rituals are celebrated. Before he dies of his wounds, he reveals to his superiors that four prominent members of society – a government minister, a peer, a general and a famous scientist – are involved in the cult, led by Chin Yang . In order to avoid any reprisals by the minister, the secret service call in Scotland Yard's Inspector Murray  to work on the case independently. Murray  suggests consulting noted occult expert Professor Lorrimar Van Helsing . The cult kidnaps the Secret Service secretary Jane , who is later bitten by Dracula . Murray, Secret Service agent Torrence  and Van Helsing's granddaughter Jessica  arrive at the country house. They split up with the former two investigating inside where they meet Chin Yang, the head of the house. Jesscia goes in through the cellar where she finds Jane, chain to a wall, who reveals she's now a vampire. The commotion awakens other vampire women who are likewise stored there and they nearly feed on Jesscia. Her screams are heard by her fellow agents who come to her rescue. In the process Murray kills Jane with a stake and the three escape the grounds. Meanwhile, Van Helsing pays a visit to his scientist friend Julian Keeley , whom he had recognized among the four conspirators, and finds him mentally unstable and involved on bacteriological research aiming at creating a virulent strain of the bubonic plague. Van Helsing is shot unconscious by a guard. As he comes to, Keeley's dead body hangs from the ceiling while the petri dishes containing the bacteria are gone. Keeley had referred to the 23rd of the month, which Van Helsing reveals to be the "Sabbath of the Undead". Keeley's research notes lead Van Helsing to the reclusive property developer D. D. Denham, who had funded Keeley's research. Van Helsing also suspects a reincarnated Dracula behind the plot, suggests that Dracula wants to exact revenge on humanity and speculates about a secret death wish on the Count's part. Van Helsing visits Denham in his headquarters  and finds out his true identity: Count Dracula. He tries to shoot Dracula with a silver bullet but is beaten by the Count's conspirators. Dracula decides that killing Van Helsing would be too simple and has him transferred to the country house. Meanwhile, Jessica, Murray and Torrence, while observing the country house, are attacked by snipers. Torrence is killed, while Murray and Jessica are captured. Murray awakes in the cellar and escapes the clutches of the female vampires, and later Chin Yang, revealed to be a vampire herself, just as Dracula arrives with Van Helsing. Dracula announces to Van Helsing and the ministers that Jessica, who is laid out on the satanic altar, will be his consort, uncorrupted by the plague that his "four horsemen" – including Van Helsing – would carry out into the world. The conspirators, who had considered the plague a mere deterrent not to be used, begin to question their master, but Dracula's hypnotic command stops them and causes the minister John Porter  to break the vial, releasing the bacteria and immediately infecting the minister, causing him horrible suffering. Murray runs into a guard in the computer room, but overpowers him after a fight scene. The guard's metal baton smashes a computer panel and the ensuing explosion starts a fire and breaks open the ritual room. The two uninfected conspirators escape, Murray rescues Jessica, while the infected minister – and the plague bacteria – burns in the fire. Dracula attacks Van Helsing, who escapes through a window into the woods. He lures Dracula into a hawthorn bush – a symbol of good as it provided Christ with his crown of thorns – where he is entangled until Van Helsing drives a stake through his heart.Don begins, true to its title, as the story of one of the most powerful men in the business of crime, who in spite of being one of the most wanted on the list of Interpol, remains elusive to the police. Along with the police, Don makes a few other enemies through his merciless approach to running his organization, especially when he kills one of his own men, Ramesh, when Ramesh decides to leave the business. This introduces Don to two new enemies, Kamini , Ramesh’s fiancee, and Roma,  Ramesh’s sister. When Kamini seduces Don and attempts to have the police arrest him, her plan backfires as Don outsmarts her and the police in his escape, and in the process, Kamini gets killed. A shattered, revenge-seeking Roma gets her hair cut short, trains in judo and karate, then enters Don’s gang after deceiving them into thinking that she too is on the wrong side of the law. Don is impressed with her fighting skills and allows her to work for him, without realizing her true intentions. Meanwhile, after a couple of unsuccessful attempts at nabbing Don, the police finally succeed, but Don dies during the pursuit, botching Officer D’Silva’s plan to reach the source of all crime—the man Don reported to—through capturing Don alive. D’Silva buries Don’s body, ensuring that people believe that he may still be alive. As luck would have it, D’Silva remembers his chance encounter with Vijay , a simpleton trying to survive in the hustle and bustle of Bombay in order to support two small foster children, who is an exact lookalike of Don. D’Silva hatches a plan to transform Vijay into Don so he can arrest the rest of the gang. Around the time Vijay "returns" to Don's gang as Don under the guise of amnesia, Jasjit , just released from jail, begins his mission of revenge against D’Silva and his search for his children Deepu and Muni, who had been saved and taken care of by Vijay. Vijay manages to replace the red diary with a blank one, and tells his gang that he is going to take revenge on the DSP, but is actually going there to give him the red diary. Roma goes after him, but Vijay survives the attack and he tries to explain to her that he is not Don, but Vijay. She refuses to believe him at first but D'Silva intervenes and tells her that the man she is trying to kill is indeed Vijay. Meanwhile, as Vijay learns more and more about Don through his discovery of his diary and Roma’s help, he announces to his colleagues that his memory is back. Celebrations ensue, as Don announces his return to the world, but things take a drastic turn when the police raid the celebrations, acting upon Vijay's information, but Vijay’s only witness to his true identity, D’Silva, dies in the crossfire. Tangled in a web of confusion where the police refuse to believe that he is Vijay, whereas his underworld gang realizes that he is indeed not Don, Vijay becomes not only hated by the police, but also by Don’s right-hand man, Narang, and the rest of his gang. To add to Vijay’s woes, Don’s diary which he had handed over to D’Silva — his last hope of proving his innocence — is stolen by Jasjit in an attempt to track down his lost children, without realizing that Vijay is the one man who can reunite them. Vijay escapes the clutches of the police and the underworld with Roma’s help and returns to his old self though he struggles to prove his identity and innocence. After a long fight of Vijay against Vardan's men Roma ends up getting the diary and one of the gangster's snatch it and burn it. The ending reveals that the diary which was burnt was, in fact, the fake diary and Vijay had the real one in order to trick Vardan, he gives the proof to the police and all charges are put against him, Vardan is arrested and Vijay returns to his old life.The scientists of the Coyote Bus Lines feverishly work to complete Cyclops, enabling man to achieve a new milestone in bussing: non-stop service between New York City and Denver. Almost immediately after inserting nuclear fuel into the bus's engine, a bomb goes off, almost killing Professor Baxter, the scientist in charge of the project. Cyclops itself is undamaged, but Coyote Lines has lost both its driver and co-driver. Kitty Baxter, the professor's daughter and the Cyclops's designer, is forced to turn to Dan Torrance, an old flame. Once a promising driver, Torrance was disgraced after he crashed his bus atop Mount Diablo, and was accused of saving his own life by eating all of his passengers.  Narrowly surviving an assault by vindictive fellow drivers with the help of "Shoulders" O'Brien, Torrance is recruited to drive Cyclops. Meanwhile, a sinister tycoon plots with oil sheikhs to destroy the bus. Known as "Iron Man", he spends the film in a huge iron lung while directing his brother Alex to sabotage Cyclops using timebombs. Alex would prefer to use a manmade earthquake, but Iron Man insists that the bus be destroyed and discredited. Before its maiden voyage, Alex sneaks aboard and hides a bomb within the bus. On the big day, the bus leaves New York bound for Denver. Among the passengers are the Cranes, a married couple waiting for their divorce to finalize; Father Kudos, a priest who has lost his way; Dr. Kurtz, a disgraced veterinarian; Emery Bush, a man with only a few months to live; and Camille Levy, whose father died on Mount Diablo. At first, Cyclops's journey is a success, and Torrance triumphantly breaks the 90&nbsp;mph "wind barrier" . Soon, however, disaster strikes. Investigating a mechanical problem, Dan finds Alex's bomb. He disarms it only before an explosion rips through another part of the bus. Now unable to stop, Cyclops plows across America. Dan is determined to achieve Cyclops's historic goal of non-stop service to Denver, but he also needs to surpass a treacherously curvy road where his father "bought it". Dan almost succeeds, but not before the bus runs partially off the road, finding itself teetering over a cliff. To save the bus, Dan and Shoulders shift all weight the back of the bus by pumping all of Cyclops's supply of soft drinks into the galley, and jettisoning all of the luggage. Knowing he has only one more chance to destroy Cyclops, Iron Man is finally persuaded by Alex to use the earthquake. Unfortunately for Iron Man, Alex sets the coordinates for Iron Man's house and not Cyclops. Back on the road, Cyclops finally makes its way to Denver. In the final scene, the bus is only 25 miles outside of Denver when the front and rear halves of the bus split from each other. It is unknown why and how the front and rear halves split from each other.Charles Duchemin  is the editor of an internationally known restaurant guide. After being appointed to the Académie française, Duchemin decides to retire as a restaurant critic and trains his son Gérard  to continue the family business. However, Gérard Duchemin is more interested in his true passion—the circus—than high cuisine. Soon, however, Charles' plans to retire are complicated by the arrival of Jacques Tricatel , the owner of a company of mass-produced food. Fearing for the future of high cuisine, Charles and his son strive to ruin Tricatel's company in any way they can. This movie is an allegory of the antagonism between USA culture and French culture as it was seen by French people in the 70's.Edward Kendall Sheridan Lionheart , had thought he was the greatest Shakespearean actor of his day. Abetted by his daughter Edwina , Lionheart sets about murdering, one by one, a group of critics who had both ridiculed his acting throughout his career and declined to award him their "Critic's Circle Award for Best Actor", which Lionheart felt was merited by his final season of performances in various Shakespearean plays; humiliated in the aftermath of the awards ceremony, he attempts suicide and is presumed dead. Unbeknownst to the critics, and the police, Lionheart survives the suicide attempt and is adopted into a community of meths-drinking vagrants who do his bidding. The manner of Lionheart's revenge on each critic is inspired by deaths of characters in the plays of Lionheart's last season of Shakespeare. In most cases the critic is first duped by Lionheart's acting initially to "play the part" before Lionheart's murderous intentions are revealed, followed by a forced recantation and an ironic, humiliating and grotesque dispatch of the critic. The first victim is butchered by a group of tramps on March 15 , in a reenactment of the death of Julius Caesar. The next is speared and his corpse dragged behind a horse, the fate of Hector at the hands of Achilles in Troilus and Cressida. The Merchant of Venice is reworked so that Shylock gets a pound of flesh . Other murders include: a drowning in a butt of wine, based on the murder of the Duke of Clarence in Richard III; the wife of one critic, who was drugged to sleep soundly, awakens next to her husband's decapitated body, as Imogen awoke to find the headless body of Cloten in Cymbeline; quasi-cannibalism — the effeminate Meredith Merridew is tricked into eating his "babies"  just as Queen Tamora was fed the flesh of her two sons, baked in a pie, in the climax of Titus Andronicus; one critic is tricked into believing his wife has been unfaithful, driving him to smother her in a jealous rage  and spend the rest of his life in prison; the sole female critic  is electrocuted by hair curlers as Lionheart recites a passage in which Joan of Arc is burnt at the stake, "Spare for no fagots [bundles of sticks], let there be enough..." . Many of the deaths are patterned to the weaknesses of the critics - the one that got his heart ripped out showed lusty behaviour earlier, the one drowned in wine is an alcoholic and a gluttonous person choked on pie while being force-fed. Each critic can be seen to represent one of the Seven Deadly Sins, with punishment fitting the particular sin. Some are more convincing and frightening than others. A "duel" scene features Lionheart and the chief critic, Peregrine Devlin bouncing around on trampolines while slashing at one another with rapiers, in the manner of the swordfight between Tybalt and Mercutio in Romeo and Juliet. Lionheart uses this appearance to establish that he did indeed survive his suicide attempt, and thereby get his daughter, the police's chief suspect, released from custody and surveillance, to be falsely presumed the innocent daughter of a madman. Lionheart spares Devlin, who recognizes him and whom he needs to inform the police, as he intends to save Devlin, as head of the Critic's Circle, for last anyway. The audience and sometime-participants in the mayhem are methylated-spirits-drinking vagrants, who saved Lionheart from drowning after his attempt at suicide by leaping into the river. As the cheap but toxic methylated spirits have damaged their senses, Lionheart finds them easy to manipulate to help him murder the critics. After the principal series of killings, one of these meths-drinkers is disguised as Lionheart as a diversion to lure the police away while the remaining critic Devlin is kidnapped. Police capture the drunk and using the lure of hard alcohol, get him to divulge the whereabouts of Lionheart. The film ends following Lionheart's attempt to force the remaining critic, Peregrine Devlin, to present him with the "coveted" Critic's Circle Award for Best Actor. Taking the blinding of the Earl of Gloucester in King Lear as inspiration, Lionheart has arranged a contraption containing two red-hot daggers, which are poised to blind the critic should he refuse to recant and whom he will release otherwise. Devlin stands his ground despite the menace and refuses to change his original choice for the award. The slow-moving contraption is released; however, police sirens are heard outside and the device becomes stuck temporarily. Lionheart sets fire to the theater to thwart the police, who save Devlin just in the nick of time. In the confusion, one of the group of vagrants kills Edwina , hitting her over the head with the award. Lionheart retreats, carrying Edwina's body to the roof and delivering Lear's final monologue just before the roof caves in and plunges, flaming, to his death. To this, Devlin comments "Yes it was a remarkable performance, but he was madly overacting as usual, but you must admit he did know how to make an exit."Young, well-intentioned Barry Kohler  stumbles upon a secret organization of Third Reich war criminals holding clandestine meetings in Paraguay and realizes that Dr Josef Mengele , the infamous Auschwitz doctor, is among their number. He phones Ezra Lieberman , an aging Nazi hunter living in Austria, with this information. A highly skeptical Lieberman tries to brush Kohler's claims aside, telling him that it is a long-established fact that Mengele is dead. Having learned when and where the next meeting to include Mengele is scheduled to occur, Kohler records part of it using a hidden microphone, but is discovered and killed while making another phone call to Lieberman. Aware that something is wrong, Lieberman follows Kohler's leads and begins travelling throughout Europe and North America to investigate the suspicious deaths of a number of middle-aged civil servants. He meets several of their widows and is amazed to find an uncanny resemblance in their adopted, black-haired, blue-eyed sons. It is also made clear throughout the film that, at the time of their deaths, all the civil servants were aged around 65 and had a cold, domineering, and abusive attitude towards their adopted sons, while their wives were aged around 42 and doted on the sons. Lieberman gains insight from Frieda Maloney , an incarcerated former Nazi guard who worked with the adoption agency, before realizing during a meeting with Professor Bruckner , an expert on cloning, the terrible truth behind the Nazi plan: Mengele, in the 1960s, had secluded several surrogate mothers in a Brazilian clinic and fertilised them with ova each carrying a sample of Hitler's DNA preserved since World War II. 94 perfect clones of Hitler had then been born and sent to different parts of the world for adoption. As Lieberman uncovers more of the plot, Mengele's superiors become more unnerved. After Mengele happens to meet  one of the agents he believes is in Europe implementing his scheme, Mengele's principal contact, Eduard Seibert , informs him that the scheme has been aborted before Lieberman can expose it to the authorities. Mengele storms out, pledging that the operation will continue. Seibert and his men go to set fire to Mengele's jungle estate after killing his servants and guards. Mengele himself, however, has already left, intent on trying to continue his plan. He travels to rural Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, where one of the Hitler clones, Bobby Wheelock , lives on a farm with his parents. There he murders the boy's father , a Doberman dog breeder, and lies in wait for Lieberman, who is on his way to the farm to warn Mr. Wheelock of Mengele's intention to kill him. The instant Lieberman arrives and sets eyes on Mengele, he attacks the doctor in a fury. But Mengele soon gains the upper hand and holds him at gunpoint. He taunts Lieberman by explaining his plan to return Hitler to the world. Then, with one desperate lunge, Lieberman opens the closet where the Dobermans are held and turns them loose. The dogs corner Mengele and begin to attack him. At that point, Bobby arrives home from school. It is Mengele's first look at one of his clones. Bobby calls off the dogs and tries to find out what has happened. Bobby can tell from the carnage that something is amiss. The injured Mengele tells Bobby how much he admires him, and explains that he is cloned from Hitler. But Bobby doubts his story and is also suspicious because the dogs are trained to attack anyone who threatens his family. Lieberman tells Bobby that Mengele has killed his father and urges him to notify the police. Bobby checks the house and eventually finds his dead father in the basement. He rushes back upstairs and sets the vicious dogs on Mengele once again, relishing his bloody death. Bobby then proceeds to help Lieberman, whom Mengele has shot and wounded, but only after Lieberman promises not to tell the police about the incident. Later, while recovering from his wounds, Lieberman is encouraged by an American Nazi-hunter, David Bennett  to expose Mengele's scheme to the world. He asks Lieberman to turn over the list  identifying the names and whereabouts of the other boys from around the world, so that they can be systematically killed before growing up to become bloody tyrants. Lieberman objects on the grounds that they are mere children. He burns the list before anyone can read it. In the final scene, Bobby is shown in his darkroom, absorbed and excited by photographs that he has taken of Mengele's body after it has been savaged by the dogs.In Civil War era America, a Quaker family helps slaves who have run away, knowing that they could die.World War I veteran Waldo Pepper  feels he has missed out on the glory of aerial combat after being made a flight instructor. After the war, Waldo has taken up barnstorming to make a living. He soon tangles with rival barnstormer  Axel Olsson . Enemies at first, Waldo and Axel become partners and try out various stunts. One of these stunts, a car-to-plane transfer, goes wrong and Waldo is nearly killed after Axel is unable to climb high enough for Waldo's body to clear a barn and Waldo slams into it. Waldo then goes home to Kansas to recuperate with an earlier lover Maude  and her family. Maude, however, is not happy to see Waldo at first; because every time she does, Waldo is injured in some way. But eventually they make up and are lovers once again. Meanwhile, Maude's brother Ezra , an old friend of Waldo's, promises to build Waldo a high-performance monoplane as soon as Waldo is well enough to fly it. Waldo's goal is to be the first pilot in history to perform an outside loop, and Ezra feels that Waldo can do it with this monoplane. In the meantime, Waldo recuperates and rejoins Axel and the two eventually get a job flying for a traveling flying circus owned by Doc Dillhoefer . In an effort to attract bigger crowds, Dillhoefer hires Waldo's and Axel's friend Mary Beth  to act as the show's sexual attraction. As the show moves from town to town, and the crew practices new stunts, they experience problems, errors, and crashes. As a result of the death of Mary Beth during a wing walking stunt, Waldo is grounded by an inspector of the newly formed Air Commerce division of the Federal government, a man from Waldo's past during the war named Newt ([[Geoffrey Lewis . Waldo ultimately loses his pilot's license and the Dillhoefer air circus is suspended after Ezra is killed while attempting the outside loop substituting for Waldo. This doesn't stop Waldo from flying for long. Using an alias so that he may continue flying despite being grounded, Waldo gets a job as a stunt pilot in a Hollywood film depicting the air battles of the Great War. Famous German air ace Ernst Kessler  has also been hired by the producers, as a consultant and to fly a Fokker Dr. I replica. The disillusioned, bitter and heavy drinking depiction of Kessler is based on the real German ace and stunt flier Ernst Udet.{{Citation needed}} During filming of a famous wartime duel, though their fighters are unarmed, Waldo and Kessler begin dogfighting in deadly earnest, using their airplanes as weapons, each repeatedly colliding with the other—Waldo in a Sopwith Camel, Kessler in the Fokker. Eventually, they both realize that their planes are too damaged to land. Instead of fighting, each salutes the other, and flies his own way. As the sound fades, the last shot of the film is of a page in an album. One of the pictures is of Waldo. Beneath the picture is a caption: "Waldo Pepper. 1895–1931".On Jan and Dean's rise to the top of the music industry, a horrible car accident leaves Jan Berry incapacitated and their dreams shattered. With the help of Dean and others, Jan slowly recovers, learning again to walk and talk. A comeback to the music industry is seen as a slim chance, but Jan's willingness to try and with Dean right by his side, the duo aim for another shot.Colonel Morgan learns from his Indian scout Bookbinder ([[Ben Johnson  that the notorious bandit Joe Baker  is planning "something big" but is thwarted at learning details. It is revealed that Baker is planning to attack and rob a bandit hoarde just across the border in Mexico. The treasure being well guarded, Baker makes a deal with the scurrilous Johnny Cobb to purchase a gatling gun in exchange for a woman. Baker receives a letter from his fiancé Dover informing him of her imminent arrival, which sets a deadline on the achievement of his "something big." Baker's gang holds up a series of stagecoaches, but in each one he is unable to find a woman suitable for Cobb and lets the passengers go unmolested. He is finally able to find a worthy candidate, who turns out to be Colonel Morgan's wife Mary Ann. She quickly learns to like Baker because he treats her with respect. The abduction of his wife enrages Morgan, who sets off with a patrol to rescue her and capture Baker. Cobb and sidekick Angel Moon meet the trader Malachi Morton  in the desert to buy the gun, which has been stolen from a federal arsenal. When the trader demands more, Moon hurls his knife into Morton's chest, instantly killing him. They take the gun. Before they can meet Baker, however, they are accosted by Morgan and his scout Bookbinder, who agree to let the bandits go if they reveal Baker's location. Baker's fiancé Dover arrives at the fort and installs herself in Morgan's quarters. Hearing of her arrival, Baker agrees to meet her in the desert. She gives him an ultimatum to go home with her immediately or she will marry someone else. The night before the supposed rendezvous with Cobb to purchase the gun, Baker realizes he is in love with Mary Ann. He attempts to kiss her, but she rebuffs him, stating she is love with her husband. Nevertheless, Baker tells Tommy that he intends to take the gun from Cobb without giving Mary Ann to him. Morgan and his scout, with Cobb, Moon and the gun in tow, arrive at Baker's hideout. Angel Moon is killed when he attempts to kill Baker. Morgan proceeds to beat up Baker for stealing his wife. He refuses to give Baker the gun, but his wife reminds him that he is now officially retired and no longer has the authority to seize the gun as federal property. Cobb realizes he is not going to get his woman and breaks down. Tommy realizes that there is a solution, namely that a pair of lonely women  would certainly welcome Cobb's presence. Cobb proceeds to their house, and although it is across the border in Texas, where he is a wanted outlaw, the women drag him across. Baker and his men assault the bandit's town in Mexico, with the help of the Apache allies they have previously paid with whiskey. They are informed that the notorious bandit is now a monk, who greets Baker in a garden. Baker suspects a ruse and pulls open the monk's robe, revealing a pistol. A gun battle erupts. The Apaches, who arrive drunk, quickly flee. Baker is able to mount the wagon and goes on a killing rampage, mowing down men by the dozen from the rooftops of the town until the remainder flee. Baker finds the bandit's treasure in the town church, but as his men celebrate their riches, he is haunted by his fiancé's words and the sight of the crucifix on the wall. Back at the fort, Morgan receives an emotional farewell from his assembled troops. Baker, Dover, Morgan and Mary Ann board the stagecoach to return to the East. As they ride out, Baker's men ride alongside and salute him, adorned like kings. Baker climbs out on top of the stagecoach and celebrates with them.The film follows the novel in presenting a first-person narrative from the point of view of Billy Pilgrim, who becomes "unstuck in time" and experiences the events of his life in a seemingly random order, including a period spent on the alien planet of Tralfamadore. Particular emphasis is placed on his experiences during World War II, including the bombing of Dresden in World War II, as well as time spent with fellow prisoners of war Edgar Derby  and the psychopathic Paul Lazzaro . His life as a husband to Valencia , and father to Barbara and Robert  are also depicted, as they live and sometimes even enjoy their life of affluence in Ilium, New York. A "sink-or-swim" scene with Pilgrim's father is also featured. The scenes of extraterrestrial life on Trafalmadore feature Hollywood starlet Montana Wildhack .Steve Rogers is a character in contemporary times whose father was a 1940s government agent. The very patriotic attitude of Steve's father earned him the nickname Captain America, and his father is spoken of as having been murdered. Rogers, a former Marine now making what little living he makes as an artist, is inspired by this story to sketch a super-hero. After receiving potentially fatal injuries in an accident, he is administered an experimental chemical called the FLAG — Full Latent Ability Gain—formula  which not only saves his life but also enhances his body with heightened strength and reflexes. These new abilities lead Dr. Simon Mills , the research biochemist and intelligence official who had told Rogers about his father, to recruit him and give Steve a costume based on his drawing. As Captain America, he also makes significant use of a specialized reconstruction of the van he has been driving, out the rear of which can be launched a modified motorcycle. Its functions include a rocket thrust for a fast start out of the van, a jet boost for increased speed, a setting to allow the bike to be ridden with less noise for stealthier movement and a hang glider structure which can allow the bike to glide to the ground with some forward momentum, although it must be jettisoned upon landing.British and Soviet ballistic-missile submarines mysteriously disappear. James Bond  is summoned to investigate. On the way, he escapes an ambush by Soviet agents in Austria, killing one during a downhill ski chase, and escaping via a Union Flag parachute. Bond learns that the plans for a highly advanced submarine tracking system are on the market in Egypt. There, he encounters Major Anya Amasova  of the KGB, his rival for the plans. Bond and Amasova team up, due to a truce supported by their respective superiors. They travel across Egypt together, tracking the microfilm plans, meeting Jaws – an unnaturally tall assassin with steel teeth – along the way. They later identify the person responsible for the thefts as shipping tycoon, scientist and anarchist Karl Stromberg. While travelling by train to Stromberg's base in Sardinia, Bond saves Amasova from being attacked by Jaws, and their rivalry changes into affection. They visit Stromberg's base and learn of his mysterious new supertanker, the Liparus. Jaws, and other henchmen, chase the couple's car, but they escape, due to Bond's superior driving skills and his Q Branch Lotus Esprit sports car/submarine. This unique car enables the two spies to perform a further underwater reconnaissance of Stromberg's facilities. Bond later finds out that the Liparus has never visited any known port or harbour, and Amasova learns that Bond killed her lover in Austria; she promises Bond that she will kill him when their mission ends. Later, while aboard an American submarine, Bond and Amasova examine Stromberg's underwater Atlantis base and confirm that he is operating the tracking system. The Liparus then captures the submarine, just as it captured the others. Stromberg sets his plan in motion: the launching of nuclear missiles from the submarines, to destroy Moscow and New York City. This would trigger a global nuclear war, which Stromberg would survive in Atlantis, and subsequently a new civilisation would be established. He leaves for Atlantis with Amasova. Bond frees the captured British, Russian and American submariners and they battle the Liparus{{'}}s crew. Bond reprograms the British and Soviet submarines to destroy each other, saving Moscow and New York. The victorious submariners escape the sinking Liparus on the American submarine. Bond insists on rescuing Amasova before the submarine has to follow its orders and destroy Atlantis. Bond confronts and kills Stromberg but again encounters Jaws, whom he drops into a shark tank. Bond and Amasova flee in an escape pod as Atlantis is sunk. In the pod Amasova reminds Bond that she has vowed to kill him and picks up Bond's gun, but admits to having forgiven him and the two make love. The Royal Navy recovers the pod, and the two spies are seen in intimate embrace through its large window, much to the consternation of Bond and Amasova's superiors. Meanwhile, Jaws escapes from the shark tank  and swims off into the sunset.In contrast to Buñuel's story, Savages starts when a tribe of primitive "mudpeople" performing a sacrifice encounter a croquet ball, rolling through their forest. Following it, they find themselves on a vast, deserted Westchester estate in the 1930s. Entering, they begin to become civilized and assume the stereotypical roles and dress of people at a weekend party. There follows an allegory of upper-class behavior. At last, they begin to devolve toward their original status, and after a battle at croquet, they disappear into the woods.Justin Playfair  is a millionaire who retreats into fantasy after the death of his wife, imagining himself to be Sherlock Holmes, the legendary fictional detective. Complete with deerstalker hat, pipe and violin, he spends his days in a home-made criminal laboratory, constantly paranoid about plots hatched by his  arch-enemy, Professor Moriarty. When his brother  tries to place Justin under observation in a mental institution so he can get power of attorney, Justin attracts the attention of Dr Mildred Watson , a psychiatrist who becomes fascinated by his case. Justin demonstrates a knack for Holmesian deduction, then he walks out of the institution during the ensuing confusion. Watson comes to his home to attempt treatment. Playfair is initially dismissive of Watson's attempts at psychoanalyzing him, but when he hears her name, he enthusiastically incorporates her into his life as Doctor Watson to his Holmes. The duo then begin an enigmatic quest for Moriarty, with Playfair/Holmes following all manner of bizarre and  unintelligible clues, and the two growing closer to each other in the process.In 1930 Marseille two small-time crooks, Capella and Siffredi join forces when they meet brawling over a woman. Starting with fixed horse races and fights, they end up doing jobs for the local gangster bosses. When they decide to go into the business for themselves, their easy-going approach to crime starts to change. The first half of the film resembles more or less a comedy, while in the second one firearms are used. In the end Capella is killed and before his death pronounces the phrase: "La chance n'existe pas !"  The film's story continues in the 1974 sequel Borsalino & Co.Tom Logan is a rustler experiencing hard times. He and his gang are particularly upset by the hanging of a friend by Braxton, a land baron who takes the law into his own hands. Logan's men pull off a daring train robbery, only to lose much of the money. They decide to seek vengeance against Braxton by killing his foreman Pete Marker and by buying a small property close to Braxton's ranch, then rustling his stock. First the gang, without Logan, rides off across the Missouri River and north of the border to steal horses belonging to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. In their absence, Logan plants crops and enters into a relationship with Braxton's virginal daughter, Jane. Braxton is obsessed with both his rustling problem and his daughter. He sends for Robert E. Lee Clayton, a notorious "regulator" who, for a price, will take care of rustlers personally. Clayton arrives with a fancy wardrobe, a perfumed scent, an Irish brogue and an 1859 Creedmoor rifle with which he is deadly accurate from a very long distance. Quickly suspicious of Logan, who doesn't strike him as a farmer, Clayton dons a variety of disguises and begins to pick off Logan's gang, one by one. Identifying himself as "Jim Ferguson," he kills Logan's young friend Little Tod by dragging him with a rope through the raging Missouri. Clayton spies on Logan with binoculars and taunts Braxton about his daughter's affair with a horse thief. Braxton attempts to discharge him but Clayton is determined to finish what he starts. He amuses himself by shooting two more of Logan's partners, Cary and Cy, from a distance and then by wearing a "granny" dress while brutally killing Logan's closest friend, Cal, with a handmade weapon. Logan knows it's kill or be killed. He also wants vengeance against Braxton for having hired the regulator in the first place, despite his feelings for Jane. One night after a campfire goes dark with Clayton serenading his horse, Logan slits his throat. He then comes after Braxton, who has lost his mind as well as his daughter. He pulls a weapon on Logan and is shot in the chest. Logan abandons his farm and packs up to leave. He acknowledges to Jane the possibility that they can renew their relationship another time, another place.In the South, Sampson and the local Preacherman plan to bust out their friend Randy from prison. As they rush to the prison, the two are stopped by a roadblock and wind up in a shootout with the police. Meanwhile, Randy and another cellmate named Pappy manage to escape from inside the prison and wait for Sampson and the Preacherman to help them get out. While waiting for them, Randy unwillingly listens to Pappy tell a story about three guys that resemble and Randy and his friends. Pappy's story is told in animation set against live-action background photos and footage. Brother Rabbit, Brother Bear, and Preacher Fox are forced to pack up and leave their Southern settings after the bank mortgages their home and sells it to a man who turns it into a brothel. The trio moves to Harlem, "home to every black man". When they arrive, Rabbit, Bear, and Fox find that it isn't all that it's made out to be. They encounter a con man named Simple Savior, a phony revolutionary leader who purports to be the "cousin" of "Black Jesus", and that he gives his followers "the strength to kill whites". In a flashy stage performance in his "church", Savior acts out being brutalized by symbols of black oppression—represented by images of John Wayne, Elvis Presley and Richard Nixon, before asking his parishioners for "donations". When Rabbit attempts to turn the crowd, Savior tries to have him killed. After Rabbit tricks his would-be murderers , he and Bear kill Savior. This allows Rabbit to take over Savior's racket, putting him in line to become the head of all organized crime in Harlem. But first, he has to get rid of a few other opponents. Savior's former partners tell Rabbit that if he can't kill his opponents, then they'll kill him instead. Rabbit first goes up against Madigan, a virulently racist and homophobic white police officer and bagman for the Mafia, who demonstrates his contempt for African Americans in various ways, including a refusal to bathe before an anticipated encounter with them . When Madigan finds out that Rabbit has been taking his payoffs, he and his cohorts, Ruby and Bobby, are led to a nightclub called "The Cottontail". A black stripper distracts him while an LSD sugar cube is dropped into his drink. Madigan, while under the influence of his spiked drink, is then maneuvered into a sexual liaison with a stereotypically effeminate gay man, and then shoved into women's clothing representative of the mammy archetype, adorned in blackface, and finally shoved out the back of the club where he discovers that Ruby and Bobby are dead. Then, while recovering from his delirium of being drugged, shoots his gun around randomly, and is shot to death by the police after shooting one of them.<ref nameJames |first |coauthorsThat's Blaxploitation!: Roots of the Baadasssss 'Tude  |year |location0-312-13192-5 |chapter117–123 }} Rabbit's final target is the Godfather who lives in the subway with his wife and gay sons. The contract for killing Rabbit is given to his only straight son Sonny. Showing up outside Rabbit's nightclub in blackface and clothing representative of minstrel show stereotypes, Sonny winds up shot multiple times by Rabbit before dying in an explosion caused by a car crash. His body is cremated and taken back home, where his mother weeps over his ashes. Bear becomes torn between staying with Rabbit, or starting a new, crime-free life. Bear decides to look for Fox in order to seek his advice. Upon arriving at Fox's newly acquired brothel, Bear is "married" to a girl he, Fox, and Rabbit met during the fight with Savior's men. Under the advisement of Fox, Bear becomes a boxer for the Mafia. During one of Bear's fights, Rabbit sets up a melting imitation of himself made out of tar. As the Mafiosos take turns stabbing at the "tar rabbit", they become stuck together. Rabbit, Bear, Fox and the opponent boxer rush out of the boxing arena as it blows up. The live-action story ends with Randy and Pappy escaping from the prison while being shot at by various white cops, but managing to make it out alive.As a young ne'er-do-well named Lightfoot  steals a car, an assassin attempts to shoot a minister delivering a sermon at his pulpit. The preacher escapes on foot. Lightfoot, who happens to be driving by, inadvertently rescues him by running over his pursuer and giving the preacher a lift. Lightfoot eventually learns that the "minister" is really a notorious bank robber known as "The Thunderbolt"  for his use of a 20 millimeter cannon to break into a safe. Hiding out in the guise of a clergyman following the robbery of a Montana bank, Thunderbolt is the only member of his old gang who knows where the loot is hidden. After escaping another attempt on his life by two other men, Thunderbolt tells Lightfoot that the ones trying to kill him are members of his gang who mistakenly thought Thunderbolt had double-crossed them. He and Lightfoot journey to Warsaw, Montana to retrieve the money hidden in an old one-room schoolhouse. They discover the schoolhouse has been replaced by a brand-new school standing in its place. Thunderbolt and Lightfoot are abducted by the men who were shooting at them -- the vicious Red Leary  and the gentle Eddie Goody ([[Geoffrey Lewis  -- and driven to a remote location where Thunderbolt and Red fight each other, after which Thunderbolt explains how he never betrayed the gang. Lightfoot proposes another heist — robbing the same company as before — with a variation on the original plan, since Lightfoot inadvertently killed their electronics expert, Dunlap, in his rescue of the fleeing preacher. In the city where the bank is located, the men find jobs to raise money for needed equipment while they plan the heist. The robbery begins as Thunderbolt and Red gain access to the building. Lightfoot, dressed as a woman, distracts the Western Union office's security guard, deactivates the ensuing alarm, and is picked up by Goody. Using an anti-tank cannon to breach the vault's wall, as they did in the first heist, the gang escapes with the loot. They flee in the car, with Red and Goody in the trunk, to a nearby drive-in movie in progress. Upon seeing a shirt tail protruding from the car's trunk lid, the suspicious theater manager calls the police and a chase ensues. Goody is shot and Red throws him out of the trunk onto a dirt road, where he dies. Red then forces Thunderbolt and Lightfoot to stop the car. He pistol-whips them both, knocking them unconscious, and kicks Lightfoot violently in the head. Red takes off with the loot in the getaway car but is again pursued by police, who shoot Red several times, causing him to lose control of the car and crash through the window of a department store, where he is attacked and killed by the store's vicious watchdog. Escaping on foot, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot hitch a ride the next morning and are dropped off near Warsaw, Montana, where they stumble upon the one-room schoolhouse - now an historical monument on the side of a highway - moved there from its original location in Warsaw after the first heist. As the two men retrieve the stolen money, Lightfoot's behavior becomes erratic as a result of the beating. Thunderbolt buys a new Cadillac convertible with cash, something Lightfoot said he had always wanted to do, and picks up his waiting partner, who is gradually losing control of the left side of his body. As they drive away celebrating their success with cigars, Lightfoot, in obvious distress, tells Thunderbolt in a slurred voice how proud he is of their 'accomplishments', and slumps over dead. Thunderbolt snaps Lightfoot's cigar in half, and with his dead partner beside him, he drives off down the highway into the distance.An apparently abandoned yacht drifts into New York Harbor. When the Harbor Patrol investigates, a huge decomposing man kills one of the officers by biting his neck. The remaining officer shoots the hulking man, a zombie, who topples into the sea. The body of the deceased officer is deposited in the morgue. Ann Bolt  is questioned by the police, since the boat belonged to her father . She only knows that her father left for a tropical island to do research. Reporter Peter West ([[Ian McCulloch  is assigned by his news editor  to report on the mysterious boat. Anne and Peter meet on the boat and discover a note from Anne's father saying he is on the island of Matool  suffering from a strange disease. Anne and Peter decide to investigate together. They arrive in the tropics and enlist the aid of a seafaring couple, Bryan Curt  and Susan Barrett , to help find the island. Matool is a cursed place where the dead rise to attack the living. Dr. David Menard ([[Richard Johnson , a resident on the island and physician at the local mission, is investigating its secrets. His contemptuous, highly strung wife Paola  wants to leave the island in fear of the increasing zombie attacks, but Menard insists on staying to continue his research. Anne, Peter, Brian, and Susan reach Matool. As they investigate, the zombies attack en masse, killing most of the mission's occupants, including Dr. Menard. Susan is later killed and returns as a zombie, infecting Brian. Peter and Anne escape by boat, taking the reanimated Brian with them as evidence. On reaching the open ocean, however, they receive a radio report that a plague of zombies has attacked New York City.Texas cowboy, Lincoln Costain , gets "shanghaied" in San Francisco, then jumps ship and washes ashore on the Hawaiian island of Kauai, right into the arms of widow Henrietta MacAvoy  and her son  who are struggling to make a living as farmers. A lot of wild cattle often trample their crops, so Costain gets the idea to start cattle ranching instead. The Hawaiian farm hands don't readily take to the American cowboy culture, and Calvin Bryson , is a banker with eyes to grab Henrietta's land and maybe Henrietta herself.The story takes place in the early 1970s in Chicago. The CIA has been required for political reasons to recruit African-Americans for training. Only one of them, Dan Freeman ([[Lawrence Cook , secretly a black nationalist, successfully completes the training process. He becomes the first black man in the agency and is given a desk job—Top Secret Reproduction Center Sections Chief . Freeman understands that he is the token black person in the CIA, and that the CIA defines his function as providing proof of the agency's supposed commitment to integration and progress. Therefore, after completing his training in guerrilla warfare techniques, weaponry, communications and subversion, Freeman puts in just enough time to avoid raising any suspicions about his motives before he resigns from the CIA and returns to work in the social services in Chicago. Upon his return, Freeman immediately begins recruiting young black men living in the inner city of Chicago to become “Freedom Fighters” teaching them all of the guerrilla warfare tactics that he learned from the CIA. They become a guerrilla group with Freeman as the secret leader. The “Freedom Fighters” set out to ensure that black people truly live freely within the United States by partaking in both violent and non-violent actions throughout Chicago. The “Freedom Fighters” of Chicago begin spreading the word about their guerrilla warfare tactics across the United States; as Freeman says, “What we got now is a colony, what we want is a new nation.” As revolt and a war of liberation continues in the inner city of Chicago, the National Guard and the police desperately try to stop the “freedom fighters.” The film provides discussions about black militancy and the violent reactions that took place by white America in response to the progress of the Civil Rights Movement.The Fish That Saved Pittsburgh tells the story of a struggling professional basketball team, the Pittsburgh Pythons, whose continuous losing streak and lack of talent has made them the laughing stock of Pittsburgh. Several players ask to be transferred to other teams, partly due to the bad publicity and the presence of the difficult but highly paid star player, Moses Guthrie . Believing that the team needs a miracle, ballboy/waterboy Tyrone Millman  turns to astrology to improve the team's fortunes. He brings his idea to astrologer Mona Mondieu , and they come up with the perfect concept: a team composed entirely of players born under the astrological sign of Pisces, the star sign of Moses Guthrie. The team is reborn as the "Pittsburgh Pisces". Although Moses and Tyrone's sister  think that Tyrone's idea is absurd, they ultimately embrace the concept. The plan succeeds wildly due to the new team's eccentric skills, teamwork, and Mona's astrological readings, culminating in a championship opportunity.Quincy Drew  and Jason O'Rourke  travel from town to town in the south of the United States during the slavery era. Drew claims to be a down-on-his-luck slave owner who is selling O'Rourke as a slave. Drew gets the bidding rolling, sells O'Rourke, and the two later meet up to split the profit. O'Rourke was born a free man in New Jersey and is very well educated. The twist comes when O'Rourke is sold to a slave trader who is very savvy and intent on taking him down south to make a profit.Blood Brothers follows two aimless bandits Chang Wen Hsiang  and Huang Chang  who attempt to rob Ma Xinyi . Unable to defeat him, they join forces and are soon thrashing hoodlums and even taking over a nearby group of bandits. But soon it becomes apparent Ma's ambitions far out reach those of his friends, he seeks a position in local government. Having left them behind they meet again. Now a general, Ma still in not about to let anything stand in the way of his goals - which now include defeating the 'long hair' bandits and Huang's wife Mi Lan ([[Ching Li . The attraction is mutual, with her seeing potential of this ambitious man. Whilst Chang and Huang are off fighting the bandits Ma and Mi have an affair and he arranges for Huang to be assassinated rather than let his position fall into disgrace. As Chang recounts his tale to the local Marshall, held for the murder of his blood brother, the inevitability of his fate is always clear. After Ma's men take their revenge, Mi Lan is left to recall over the good times and all the trouble she's caused.The film deals loosely with life on the road as a rock musician.Miles, 2004, Frank Zappa, p. 207. The Mothers of Invention go crazy in the small town Centerville, and bassist Jeff quits the group, as did his real life counterpart, Jeff Simmons, who left the group before the film began shooting and was replaced by actor Martin Lickert for the film.<ref namehttp://movies.nytimes.com/movie/review?resMovie Review: 200 Motels |lastVincent|publisherNo self-proclaimed surrealistic documentary can be all bad when it has a score composed by Frank Zappa...|dateSep. 17, 2010}}{{cite book}}Maindrian Pace  is an intelligent, respectable insurance investigator who runs a quality auto chop shop in Long Beach, California. What very few know is that he is the leader of a group of professional car thieves which steal cars around the town and sell it remodeled for a good price. One day, a South American drug lord arrives at Pace's office and offers him $400,000 to steal 48 specific cars to be delivered to his place within five days. The cars are all very high-end, ranging from Mustangs and Cadillacs to limousines and race vehicles, making the order quite difficult to fill it under the time limit, but Pace still wants to get the money. Mapping out a basic strategy, the gang begins to scout out their targets which have all been given female names. One example is a yellow 1973 Ford Mustang Mach 1, receiving the code name"Eleanor". Being part of the insurance industry, Pace does have one small idiosyncrasy when it comes to stealing: All of the cars stolen by the gang must be insured, because Pace wants to make sure the owners get the insurance for the cars. The thieves carry out their plan easily at first but run into a couple of obstacles. First, a white Cadillac that the gang steals is revealed to have several kilos of heroin stashed in the trunk. Against his brother-in-law Eugene's suggestion to sell the heroin on the side, Pace has the Cadillac and its contents burned at a remote location. Then they discover that the "Eleanor" they stole is not insured after its owner posts a notice on the local newspaper. After pleas from his fiancée Pumpkin Chace he decides, much to the chagrin of his buddies, to return it. After that, they manage to get 47 cars stolen and delivered. On the day before the deadline, a disguised Pace spots another "Eleanor" at a radio station in Long Beach and prepares to steal it, but is unaware the police have been alerted after his brother-in-law sells him out anonymously following a fight over the stolen Cadillac. As a result of the tip-off, two detectives  confront a disguised Pace as he is about to drive out of the carpark. This results in a lengthy 34-minute car chase  that spans from Long Beach to Carson. During the chase, Pace drives a battered "Eleanor", which belongs to the radio DJ of Constant Country K-Fox who is giving updates on the chase but doesn't know it's his car, into a 30-foot jump over a prior car crash, losing the police in the process. Pace is now desperate because the car is almost destroyed. Minutes later, Pace spots another yellow "Eleanor" Mustang pulling into a car wash. He asks for his car to be washed and then dupes the owner of the other Mustang into reporting to the manager's office. He subsequently leaves the car wash with the other Mustang, switching the license plates and removing his disguise. The Mustang owner faints at the sight of the wrecked "Eleanor" exiting the car wash machine while the manager is arrested by the police, who mistake him for Pace.In France in 1719, Philippe II, Duke of Orléans is the regent for the young Louis XV. He is sophisticated, gentle, a liberal and a libertine. He endeavours to keep his subjects cultured and happy to stop the peasants from rising up, but he knows he has no real royal authority. To assist him, d'Orléans enlists the aid of an atheistic and venal priest named Guillaume Dubois, who is as much of a libertine as Philippe, and unfortunately does not care for anyone except himself. At the beginning of the movie, a very gruesome scene shows the autopsy of Marie Louise Élisabeth d'Orléans, Duchess of Berry, elder daughter of the Regent. The voluptuous young princess expires on 21 July 1719, her health fatally ruined by her debauched life and a series of clandestine pregnancies. Notoriously promiscuous, Joufflotte  as she was nicknamed because of her generous proportions, was rumored of committing incest with her father. The autopsy reveals that the Rubenesque princess was again pregnant. Philippe is very much affected by her death. Meanwhile, a rebellion led by a Breton squire named Pontcallec occurs. Philippe's natural idealism is further shaken when he is forced to execute Pontcallec's band of revolutionaries. Dubois, however, tries to take advantage of the revolt and subsequent famine to become archbishop. It becomes apparent that true joy will only be found when the peasants successfully overthrow the aristocrats who have held them down for so long. The movie provides a description of 18th century court life, and features the music of the real Philippe d'Orléans.{{plot}} Craig Blake  is a young Southern man born of a wealthy family, but left lonely and idle after his parents died in a plane crash. He is content to spend his time fishing, hunting and puttering around his large family mansion, inhabited only by himself and a butler . Blake's "job" is a sinecure working at a shady investment firm run by a slick con artist named Jabo  and he does very little actual work. But since he has to have his name "on paper" somehow as an employee, he is asked to personally transact the purchasing of a small gym that the real estate firm is buying in order to clear space for an office high-rise. He initially approaches the gym representing himself as a businessman looking to buy it, and acts relatively impersonal with its staff, although he is strangely fascinated with the world he discovers there . But Blake's primary social life is centered around the upscale country club he attends. The audience is introduced to the ritzy country club crowd, including the WASP-y Lester  and the roguish rake Halsey . Blake spends his time at this club with his friends playing tennis and shooting poker dice, and flirting with the upper-class women of all ages - one of whom asks Blake to find an "authentic" musical guest for an upcoming party at the club. As Blake moves forward with his business deal, he falls in love with the gym after visiting it several times - he is immediately taken by the pretty receptionist Mary Tate Farnsworth  and the free-spirited, friendly bodybuilder Joe Santo , who aspires to win the Mr. Universe title. He cannot bring himself to sell out his newfound friends at the gym for the sake of his job, and so he evades the inquiries of his friend and coworker Hal Foss as to his progress in the purchasing deal. All the while, he grows closer to Mary Tate and Joe Santo - who initially appear to be a couple. However, Mary Tate latches onto Craig romantically - and Santo gives Craig his blessing for this unorthodox relationship, claiming that he needs to keep himself challenged both in the gym and in his romantic life in order to succeed. Mary Tate and Craig begin a passionate and exciting relationship. But trouble erupts when he tries to integrate Mary Tate into his country-club scene. This tension comes to a head at a party at the country club, which features Joe Santo as a musical guest, performing bluegrass songs on the violin with a small country group. Craig, with Mary Tate as his guest , is enthusiastic about Joe Santo's upcoming musical performance for the night. But Craig's friends, particularly Halsey, mock Santo as a "freak" and an outcast. When Halsey suggest that Santo disrobe and show the crowd his "tits," Craig throws a glass of Scotch in his face and tells Halsey that Santo could "crush him like an eggshell." A fight nearly breaks out between the two, but is broken up. Meanwhile a bitter Halsey and his friend Packman formulate a plan to embarrass Santo. When Santo's musical act is finally put on stage, the crowd seems enthusiastic about the music, though the hostess of the party dismisses it as a "racket." However, Halsey and Packman drunkenly bellow at Santo and heckle the band. Santo notices it, but stoically continues playing. However, when Halsey screams "let's hear it for Muscle Beach symphony orchestra!" Santo is unable to continue playing, puts down his violin and leaves the party. Meanwhile a frustrated Craig tries to convince Mary Tate to see him for who he really is, and not for his snobbish friends and ritzy surroundings. The Mr. Universe contest is approaching fast and Santo is training hard. But Jabo, owner of the shady real estate firm, attempts to bribe the owner of the gym, Thor Eriksen, when he realizes that Blake will not purchase the building as he was supposed to. He plies Eriksen and his assistant Newton with drugs, booze and hookers, and on the day of the contest, they are busy with acts of debauchery as Santo is readying to take the stage - hoping to beat his rival Dougie Stewart . While Thor is drunk and distracted with the prostitutes, Newton secretly stashes the prize money inside his handbag, and then leaves the gym with the prostitutes when they are finished - stealing the money and fleeing. Meanwhile, Joe Santo and Dougie Stewart pose together on stage, to the theme song from the film 'Exodus' and the enthusiastic applause of the crowd. Meanwhile Blake visits at the gym and engages in an intense physical fight, dodging weights and gym equipment thrown by the drunken and drug-crazed Eriksen. He finds Mary Tate at the gym, who had just moments earlier been assaulted by Eriksen in an amyl nitrite fueled rage. When the contestants at the Mr. Universe show discover that the prize money has been stolen, they run after Joe Santo, who himself is actually running to try to meet Mary Tate. The chase results in the wave of bodybuilders pouring out into the streets of Birmingham, to the amazed crowd of onlookers which sees them. The bodybuilders take advantage of this unexpected attention to put on an impromptu posing routine for the crowd, and the members of the crowd join in, imitating the athletes' poses and enjoying themselves - an embracing of the bodybuilding lifestyle by 'normal' people which arguably represents the real-life 1970s boom of personal fitness. The film ends with Craig sarcastically deriding his former bosses at the real-estate firm, and deciding to go into the gym business with Joe Santo. A voice-over by his uncle Albert says, "you may not have been the Blake that we anticipated, but you are definitely Craig Blake - an identity that no one will dare challenge." Craig has finally "found himself" and discovered a true place in the sun, and true friendships, and he mocks his former boss Jabo with an exaggerated bodybuilding pose - acting as a final burning of the bridge between his old life and his new one. The final shot of the film shows Craig moving out of his family's mansion, passing on all of his old family memorabilia to his loyal butler, and leaving behind his old self once and for all - on the way to a new and exciting future.After opening with newspaper articles, footage and quotes relating to the Vietnam War and the psychological condition of the American soldiers who have returned from it, the authorities are shown investigating a crime scene in which a man was shot in the head. Going back an unspecified amount of time, the man is revealed to be a gas station attendant, and is shown coercing a female customer into giving out her name and address by claiming they are needed for a credit card transaction. After the woman drives away, the attendant goes to her apartment building and watches through a window as she has sex with her husband. When the husband leaves, the attendant breaks into the apartment and forces the woman to perform oral sex on him while he verbally abuses her, slitting her throat after he climaxes. Back at the gas station, the attendant gives a lost motorist directions, and follows her to the address she was looking for. The man breaks into the house, drags the woman out of the shower, and forces her to fellate him at gunpoint. He then sodomizes her, stabs her, and kisses her as she dies. Later, a ditzy female hippie picks up an equally vapid hitchhiker, and the two travel to the gas station. The attendant tricks the driver into giving out her address, and goes to her home, where she and her companion are doing drugs and having sex. The attendant sneaks in and tries to force the girls to submit to him, but the pair are too intoxicated to take him seriously, frustrating him to the point of a psychotic break. As he screams "Stay away from me!" and has a series of flashbacks to both the war and rapes and murders he has committed, the attendant shoots himself in the head. Returning to the intro, the man's body is covered by a sheet, and hauled away by the police.In the 1870s, residents of the garrison at the Fort Humboldt Army outpost are supposedly suffering from a diphtheria epidemic. A train is heading towards the fort filled with reinforcements and medical supplies. There are also civilian passengers on the train – Nevada governor Fairchild  and his mistress Marica , among others. The train stops briefly in Myrtle, where it takes on board a local lawman ([[Ben Johnson  and his prisoner, John Deakin , a notorious outlaw who was identified via a picture in a newspaper article. However, Deakin is actually an undercover federal agent. Deakin, along with his partner, the Reverend, discovers en route that there is no epidemic at the outpost and the "epidemic" is actually a conspiracy between a group of killers and a tribe of Indians. One by one, though, men aboard the train keep dying as it steams toward Breakheart Pass.In France during World War II, a group of American soldiers are in the process of being shipped off to military prison for a variety of infractions, ranging from desertion to murder. While they are being transported, a German air attack hits the convoy, killing most of the prisoners, but allowing the five surviving prisoners to fight off the escorting MPs and escape. The group decides to make their escape to neutral Switzerland, but on the way they end up volunteering for a commando mission to steal the new prototype gyroscope for the Nazi V2 with help of the French resistance. Somehow the team must sneak onto the most heavily guarded train in German territory, steal the Nazis' most precious military hardware, and bring it back to the Allies without getting arrested again by their own side.The story, which takes place in San Francisco, centers on four identical plaid overnight bags and the people who own them. *One of the bags belongs to Howard Bannister, Ph.D. , and is filled with igneous "tambula" rocks that have certain musical properties. Bannister, a musicologist from the Iowa Conservatory of Music, and his tightly-wound, overbearing fiancée, Eunice Burns , have come to San Francisco to obtain a grant offered by Frederick Larrabee . Howard has a theory that ancient man may have used rocks to create music. Howard's rival for the grant is the ethically-challenged, dubiously-accented Hugh Simon , who apparently is from Yugoslavia  but seems to be doing work in Western Europe. *The second bag belongs to Judy Maxwell , and is filled with her clothes and a large dictionary. No matter where Judy goes, trouble happens, from car crashes to spontaneous combustion of hotel rooms. She never finished college, but nevertheless has amassed a considerable amount of knowledge from all of the courses she took at the many institutions of higher learning from which she was expelled. *The third bag belongs to Mrs. Van Hoskins , a rich woman who is using it to store her valuable jewels. *The fourth and last overnight bag belongs to the mysterious "Mr. Smith" ([[Michael Murphy  and contains top-secret government papers. There is at least some indication that he has them illegally and wishes to make them public. The equally mysterious "Mr. Jones" ([[Philip Roth  identifies himself as a being from the government, and is on a mission to recover the documents. Howard, Eunice, Mrs. Van Hoskins, and Mr. Smith all happen to check into the Hotel Bristol at the same time, whereupon Judy lodges herself there without paying and begins pursuing Howard . Two hotel employees  attempt to steal the jewels belonging to Mrs. Van Hoskins, while Mr. Jones attempts to get the bag belonging to Mr. Smith. Over the course of the evening, the bags get switched haphazardly from room to room as the four parties unwittingly take one another's suitcases. Howard ends up with the jewels, Judy with the documents, Mr. Smith with the clothes, and the thieves end up with the rocks. Few people ever actually open the bags to confirm that what they think they have is what they actually possess. Meanwhile, Judy manages to secure the grant for Howard while masquerading as Eunice, and then accidentally destroys his hotel room. The following day, everyone makes their way to Mr. Larrabee's home where a shooting occurs. Howard and Judy take all the bags and are chased through San Francisco by the thieves, Mr. Smith, Mr. Jones, Eunice, Simon, Larabee and a few roped-in bystanders. They go through Chinatown, down Lombard Street, and eventually into San Francisco Bay. All the protagonists finally end up in court, under the gavel of a world-weary and curmudgeonly judge  who, improbably, turns out to be Judy's father, who at the shock of seeing his daughter being involved in this scandal, suffers a heart attack, which causes the judge's bench to collapse. In the end, everything is cleared up, Howard gets his rocks back, Mrs. Van Hoskins pays the considerable damages in Howard's name with the reward money he would have received for the return of her jewels, the hotel thieves are forced to flee the country and the papers are put back in the hands of the government. Judy exposes Simon as a fraud and plagiarist , Eunice leaves Howard for Larrabee and Judy announces she is taking one more pass at college &mdash; studying Music History at the Iowa Conservatory of Music. The film ends on a suitably romantic  note as Howard and Judy share an airborne kiss while their in-flight movie shows the Bugs Bunny cartoon that gave the film its name.Employee John David Welles attempts to steal rocket booster plans from the Groundstar facility. His attempt goes awry and he is badly disfigured in an explosion and barely escapes. He stumbles to the home of Nicole Devon, and collapses. She calls an ambulance, the authorities are alerted, and soon Welles is operated on, given plastic surgery and interrogated by a gung-ho government official named Tuxan. But Welles claims to have no memory of his crime. In fact, he claims no memory of his life at all, save for brief glimpses of a woman and small boy frolicking on a beach. Despite Tuxan's brutal interrogation techniques , Welles still maintains his story of total amnesia. Tuxan allows Welles to escape, hoping he will lead them to the people behind the attempted theft. Welles goes to Nicole's home and begs her to help him remember. But she knows nothing. Eventually the inside conspirators behind the attempted theft are found, and Tuxan reveals the truth to Welles, who still cannot remember any details of the crime. John David Welles actually died en route to the hospital on the night of the explosion. The man we have come to know as Welles is really Peter Bellamy, a government employee who recently lost his wife and son in an accident. Bellamy, feeling that life was no longer worth living and remembering, volunteered to have his memory wiped and to play Welles in order to draw the conspirators into the open.On an expedition in Papua New-Guinea a tribe of apelike creatures is found. They are named the Tropis. Quickly they are being used as slaves by humans. Then one of the Tropis is allegedly murdered. The following murder trial centers round the question: are the Tropis a form of humans or a form of animals?The residents of a large town are inexplicably turning into rhinoceroses. Stanley , a mild-mannered office clerk, watches the bizarre transformations from a bemused distance. But soon the strange occurrences invade his personal space, as his neighbor and best friend John  and his girlfriend Daisy  become part of the human-into-rhinoceros metamorphosis that is taking place. Eventually, Stanley realizes that he may be the only human left amidst the new rhinoceros majority.<ref name9500E0DB103DE13ABC4A51DFB766838F669EDE “Film: Absurdity of Ionesco's 'Rhinoceros' Is Reduced in Transition to Screen,” New York Times, January 22, 1974]A group of detectives, each accompanied by a relative or associate, is invited to "dinner and a murder" by the mysterious Lionel Twain . Having lured his guests to his mansion  managed by a blind butler and a deaf-mute cook, Twain announces that it is in fact he who is the greatest detective in the world. In order to prove his claim, he challenges the guests to solve a murder which will take place in the house at midnight that very night; a reward of $1 million will be presented to the winner. Before midnight, the butler is found dead, and at midnight Twain himself appears, also dead; the cook is discovered to have been an animated mannequin, now packed in a storage crate. The party spends the rest of the evening investigating, dining and bickering. They are manipulated by a mysterious behind-the-scenes force, confused by red herrings, baffled by the "mechanical marvel" that is Twain's house and ultimately find their own lives threatened. The ending piles on twist after twist as each sleuth presents his or her theory on the case. After a brutal night during which one pair is almost killed by a snake, another by a scorpion, another by a falling ceiling, a fourth by poison gas and the fifth by a bomb, they all collect in the office where the butler—believed to have been murdered earlier—is sitting behind the desk very much alive and not at all blind: "The butler did it". However, each detective then claims that the butler is in fact various incarnations of Twain's associates  or even his daughter. At first the butler plays the part of each of the persons with whom he's identified, but then pulls off a mask to reveal Lionel Twain himself, very much alive. Twain then disparages each of the detectives  for the way in which the plots in their adventures have been handled, including: introducing crucial characters at the last minute for the traditional "twist in the tale"  and withholding clues and information that made it impossible for the reader to find out who had done it. None of the detectives walks away with the million dollars. It is not clear whether any murder has actually taken place. In the last spoken line of the movie, Sydney Wang, when asked if there had been a murder or not, replies "Yes; killed good weekend!" After the guests leave, Twain pulls off another mask, revealing "himself" to be Yetta, the cook.Kopple initially intended to make a film about Kenzie, Miners for Democracy and the attempt to unseat Tony Boyle. When miners at the Brookside Mine in Harlan County, Kentucky, struck in June 1972, Kopple went there to film the strike against Duke Power Company and UMWA's response . The strike proved a more interesting subject, so Kopple switched the focus of her film. Kopple and her crew spent years with the families depicted in the film, documenting the dire straits they find themselves in while striking for safer working conditions, fair labor practices, and decent wages: following them to picket in front of the stock exchange in New York, filming interviews with people affected by black lung disease, and even catching miners being shot at while striking. The most significant point of disagreement in the Harlan County strike was the company's insistence on including a no-strike clause in the contract.Biskind, peter. Jumpcut: A Review of Contemporary Media, "Harlan County, USA, The miners' struggle", no. 14, 1977, pp. 3-4. Last accessed: February 14, 2011. The miners were concerned that accepting such a provision in the agreement would limit their influence over local working conditions. The sticking point was mooted when, a few years after this strike, the UMWA folded the agreement that was eventually won by this group of workers into a global contract. Rather than using narration to tell the story, Kopple chose to let the words and actions of these people speak for themselves. For example, when the strike breakers and others hired by the company show up early in the film &mdash; the strikers call them "gun thugs" &mdash; the company people try to keep their guns hidden from the camera. As the strike drags on for nearly a year, both sides eventually openly brandish their weapons. Kopple also relays statistics about the companies and the workers to support the strikers, such as the fact that Duke Power Company's profits increased 170 percent in a single year. Meanwhile, the striking miners, many of whom are living in squalid conditions without utilities like running water, received a 4% pay increase despite an estimated 7% cost of living increase for that same year. Joseph Yablonski was a passionate, populist union representative who was loved by many of the miners. Yablonski challenged W.A. "Tony" Boyle for the presidency of the UMWA in 1969, but lost in an election widely viewed as corrupt. Later that year, Yablonski and his family were found murdered in their home. Tony Boyle is shown early in the film in good health. Later he is seen frail, sickly and using a wheelchair, being carried up the courthouse steps to face a conviction for giving $20,000 to another union executive council member to hire the killers. Almost a full year into the strike a striking miner named Lawrence Jones is fatally shot during a scuffle. Jones was well liked, young and had a 16-year-old wife and a baby. His mother collapsed from grief at his funeral. This moment more than anything else finally forces the strikers and the management to come to the bargaining table. A central figure in the documentary is Lois Scott, who plays a major role in galvanizing the community in support of the strike. Several times she is seen publicly chastising those she feels have been absent from the picket lines. In one scene, Scott pulls a pistol from her bra. Associate director Anne Lewis compares Scott to Women's Liberation activists in the film's 2004 Criterion Collection special feature The Making of Harlan County, USA.At Medfield College, science buff Dexter Riley and his friends, including Richard Schuyler and Debbie Dawson, eavesdrop via a hidden walkie-talkie on a board meeting led by Dean Eugene Higgins, discussing the small college's continuing precarious finances. Later that afternoon, Professor Lufkin shows Higgins around the science lab where Dexter is working on an experiment with invisibility and another student, Druffle, explores the patterns of the lives of bumblebees. That night, unknown to anyone, during a powerful thunderstorm, the roof of the lab is struck by lightning, sending a current of electricity down a metal beam and through Dexter's complex experiment components. The next day, as Dexter examines his burnt equipment with dismay, Higgins meets with businessman A. J. Arno who has recently purchased Medfield's mortgage. When Dexter accidentally drops one half of his protective glasses into a container of his experimental formula, it appears as if the substance destroys them, but upon closer examination, Dexter realizes the frames are merely partially invisible. After several excited tests, Dexter boldly places his fingers in the liquid and they disappear. Schuyler and Debbie arrive and are horrified to see Dexter with a partial hand, but Dexter insists Schuyler test the substance as well, admitting only afterward that he does not yet have an antidote. Just then, Higgins brings Arno to visit the lab, stunning the students, as only two years earlier, Dexter was instrumental in exposing Arno's crooked gambling scheme. Although distracted by the condition of their partially visible hands, Dexter and the others notice that Arno is more concerned with the campus architecture than Higgins' curriculum speech. After Arno and Higgins depart, Dexter and Schuyler discover, to their surprise, that water washes off the invisibility formula's effects. Curious about Arno's behavior, Dexter convinces Schuyler to use the invisibility formula to sneak into Arno's office that night to look around. Although they are nearly discovered when Schuyler steps into a puddle, making his tennis shoes visible, the boys get inside Arno's office where they find a model of Medfield College redesigned as sprawling gambling establishment. After taking photos of the model, the boys flee with Debbie's help. The next day Dexter shows the photos to Lufkin and Higgins, both of whom are alarmed and concerned about how to buy back the college's mortgage. Convinced that Druffle's bumblebee study would draw attention and investments to Medfield, Higgins reacts angrily when Dexter assures him that his invisibility formula could win the top prize money in the upcoming Forsythe science contest. Not having admitted to anyone that Medfield has been dropped from the contest for being too insignificant, Higgins determinedly contacts the contest's sponsor, millionaire Timothy Forsythe and agrees to meet over a game of golf, despite his inability to play. Upon learning of Higgins' plan and suspecting it must be connected with raising money for the college, Dexter urges Schuyler to volunteer to serve as Higgins' caddy while, hidden by the invisibility formula, he will take control of Higgins' golf ball. At the golf club, Forsythe and the state university dean, Collingsgood, are amazed by Higgins' quirky golfing abilities, which include numerous hole-in-one-shots, as is Arno who is also at the club. After the game, Forsythe enthusiastically agrees to reinstate Medfield into the competition for the Forsythe Award. Meanwhile, Arno accidentally sees Dexter becoming visible in the club showers and grows suspicious. When the local television news covers Higgins' extraordinary golf game, he is invited to join an exclusive tournament in nearby Ocean City. Convinced that he will win enough money to pay the college's mortgage, Higgins brashly accepts and that afternoon departs with Schuyler. Learning of the tournament from Druffle too late, Dexter misses the plane and is forced to watch the competition on television where Higgins' game against two professionals is a disaster. In his business office, Arno and his henchmen, Cookie and Alfred, also watch the tournament and ponder Higgins' odd inconsistency. Upon returning to the college, Higgins tells Lufkin that Druffle's bee experiment is the school's last chance. Both men are stunned when just then Druffle appears swathed in bandages after being attacked by the bees, to which he is allergic. Hoping to assuage the crestfallen Higgins, Lufkin suggests that they give Dexter's unproven formula a chance and the dean reluctantly agrees. That evening, Cookie, disguised as a janitor, sneaks into the campus lab where he witnesses Dexter and Schuyler using the invisibility spray, and reports to Arno, who orders him to return and steal it. The following day, Forsythe and members of his committee arrive on campus to judge the best science experiment at the college. Unaware that their spray bottle has been replaced by Cookie, Dexter and Schuyler make their presentation and are stunned when it has no effect. Disappointed and angry, Forsythe and Higgins depart as Dexter remains confused until he chats with Charlie, the janitor. Learning that there is no night janitor, Dexter realizes that Cookie was a spy and likely stole the formula. Concluding that Arno must be behind the theft, Dexter plants a walkie-talkie in his office. A couple of days later, Schuyler overhears Arno plotting with Cookie to rob Medfield bank by making themselves and the money invisible. Certain that if he could retrieve the formula before the Forsythe Award announcement that night, he could still win the contest, Dexter sends Schuyler to the police and goes to inform the bank's president, Wilfred Sampson. When both the police and Sampson dismiss the boys' story about invisibility, Dexter and his friends gather outside of the bank to make plans. While an invisible Arno and Cookie knock out the guards and take the money, Dexter unsuccessfully tries to use a fire hydrant to hose the men down as they exit the bank. When Sampson realizes a theft has occurred, he contacts the police who join the college students in a wild chase of the car driven by the invisible robbers. After briefly eluding everyone, Arno orders Cookie to make the car invisible, but they are spotted on a dirt road in a park. Deducing Arno will not leave town but go to his home instead, Dexter drives there and forces Arno's car into a neighboring pool where it, the money and the men become visible. Taking the formula, Dexter and the others dash to the presentation of the Forsythe Award and plead for one more opportunity to demonstrate their invention. Frustrated by Dexter's determination, Higgins intervenes just as Dexter sprays Schuyler, and, again, there is no result. Realizing the dip in the pool has diluted the formula, Dexter tries to explain to Forsythe just as the top half of Higgins becomes invisible, thus shocking the group and winning the top prize to save Medfield for another year.Much of the film is based on Guthrie's attempt to humanize the desperate Okie Dust Bowl refugees in California during the Great Depression. Many of the scenes were filmed in and around Bakersfield and Kern County, actual places of Dust Bowl strife and settlement. Most of the Texas town of Pampa was filmed in Isleton, CA, a small Delta town with an old main street. Guthrie is best known for his very popular folk songs, most notably, "This Land Is Your Land".The film opens with Hermie's, Oscy's and Benjie's high school commencement exercises. During the ensuing party at Hermie's house, the three agree to meet at a diner that night, at which point Benjie announces he has enlisted in the marines and will report for basic training the following day. Hermie and Oscy are going to college at their respective fathers' request and spend the summer working at a loading dock. A few months later, Benjie pays a surprise visit before reporting to active duty in the South Pacific. He can't stay for lunch, saying he's on his way to the subway, so Hermie and Oscy accompany him to the station, where they say their goodbyes. Shortly after graduating, Hermie and Oscy are off to college, where they settle in their boarding house and are introduced to campus life. When Hermie goes to apply for a position at the campus newspaper, he meets Julie, an attractive, well-to-do coed. They strike up a friendship and quickly fall in love. Oscy meanwhile laments that he won't last very long in college, saying he's doing it for his father, and expends more effort in trying to pick up girls than studying. He tries out for football and makes the team. The two of them join a fraternity that Julie has picked out, and go through the ritual of initiation. No sooner do they move into the frat house when Oscy gets expelled from school for having a girl in his room – a major rule violation. When Hermie expresses concern about upcoming exams, Julie teaches him a few tricks on cheating.  Hermie and Julie have a falling out when Julie informs him that they can't go to the fall dance together because an old boyfriend was going to be in town and insisted on seeing her that same evening. Julie tries to assure Hermie that this fellow means nothing to her anymore and has no objection if Hermie were to go to the dance with someone else, but Hermie doesn't buy that and Julie leaves in a huff. Back at the frat house, Hermie gets into an argument with his new roommate over personal hygiene. It escalates into a shouting match when a phone call brings bad news for Hermie: his father has died suddenly. He returns home for the funeral, where Oscy pays his respects after the service. He is now in the army and is stationed on Governor's Island as a clerk typist. Oscy tries to lift Hermie's sagging spirits by suggesting they go out and have a drink in memory of Hermie's father. Once at the bar, they become inebriated and a brawl breaks out. They manage to escape and eventually stagger back to Hermie's house, where Hermie struggles to accept the fact that his father is gone. Hermie returns to college and is about to call for a cab at the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad train station when headlights are aimed directly at him, then a car horn is sounded. It's Julie, who has come to meet him. She tells Hermie that she found out about his father and called his house, at which point Hermie's mother told her what train he'd be on. She offers her condolences and informs Hermie that he passed his exams. The two reconcile as the film ends.During the 1940 London Blitz, a family of three siblings, Charlie, Carrie and Paul Rawlins, are evacuated to the small village of Pepperinge Eye. There, they are placed in the care of Eglantine Price, who reluctantly accepts the trio into her home. The children learn that Miss Price is an apprentice witch, who wants to use her witchcraft to aid the war effort. In exchange for their silence, Miss Price casts a spell on a bedknob that Paul removed from a brass bed in their room. When re-attached to the bed, it will travel anywhere that Paul asks. The next day, Miss Price receives a letter from the headteacher of her correspondence school informing her he is closing the college due to the war and cannot provide her with a crucial spell she has been waiting for to help her cause. As a result, she asks Paul if she can use the bed to go to London to track him down. Reaching London, the four quickly encounter the headmaster, Emelius Browne, who is in reality a con artist. Browne is surprised to learn that the spells he thought were merely nonsense words out of an old book actually work for Miss Price. Miss Price asks to see the book, and Emelius takes the group to a mansion where he is currently residing . While the children explore the home, Browne shows Miss Price the book, which is actually torn in half, thus explaining why he closed the college before sending out the final spell. Browne and Miss Price travel to Portobello Road with the children to search its many stalls and carts of old books. Their search attracts the attention of a spiv named Swinburne, who works for a man known as the Bookman, who has the other half of the book. Miss Price and the Bookman exchange their halves, but the completed text doesn't actually contain the spell itself but simply states that it is inscribed on a medallion known as the Star of Astoroth. Bookman tells the group that, during Astoroth's life, the wizard used his magic to imbue animals that he kept in cages and chains, with anthropomorphism. However, the animals rebelled, killed Astoroth, stole many of his possessions, sailed away on ship and were never seen or heard of again. But Bookman mentions that his half of the book has a final notation that says in the 17th century, a shipwrecked lascar was found lost at sea. The lascar was half crazy with thirst and sun exposure but swore that he saw an island ruled by animals. But Bookman says the island doesn't exist because he looked for it in every chart. When Bookman names the island, Paul realizes it's the island described in a children's book he took from Browne's house. Before Bookman can get the book, Miss Price, Browne and the children escape on the magical bed and travel to the island, Naboombu. Initially landing in a nearby lagoon, the group is caught by a bear that is fishing in the lagoon. The bear reveals that no people are meant to be on the island by order of the king. The bear leads the party to meet the island's king, a lion. The king is upset because nobody has volunteered to referee a royal soccer match. Browne convinces the king he can referee the match, and he observes the Star of Astoroth hanging on the king's neck while being trampled upon several times by the wild animals. Following the game, Mr. Browne secretly switches the Star with his referee's whistle and the group escapes on the magical bed. Upon returning home, Miss Price discovers that the Star has disappeared, as it cannot leave the fantasy world. Fortunately, Paul reveals that the words of the “substitutiary locomotion” spell have been in his book all along. Miss Price attempts the spell, which gives inanimate objects the ability to move on their own, but is unable to control it. Later, when Miss Price and the children are informed that they can be relocated, they realize they have become comfortable with each other. However Paul refers to Mr Browne as 'Dad' which quickly makes him and Miss Price uneasy. Mr Browne decides to take the first train back to London, and he bids a sad goodbye to the children as Miss Price warmly thanks him for all his help. At the station, learning that there won't be any trains until the morning, Mr. Browne decides to sleep on the bench but feels guilty for leaving the family. That night, a German raiding party invades Pepperinge Eye and commandeers Miss Price's house. She and the children are captured and taken to the village museum, inside an old castle. Mr. Browne discovers other Germans engaging in acts of sabotage. He returns to Miss Price's home and breaks into her workshop. The Germans hear the noise but Browne uses a spell to turn himself into a rabbit. He then joins group at the castle. After reverting to human form, Mr Browne suggests the substitutiary locomotion spell be cast on the old uniforms and weapons in the castle. Miss Price agrees and uses the spell to create a magical army of medieval knights, Elizabethan Guards, Cavaliers, Redcoats, and Highlanders. The Germans, unable to stop the seemingly invincible army, retreat back into the sea but not before destroying Miss Price's workshop. The explosion knocks her from the sky, where she had been directing the magical attack astride a flying broomstick. This breaks the spell. Miss Price accepts that this is the end of her days as a witch, but is happy she got to make a small contribution to the war effort. The next morning, Mr. Browne enlists and departs (with an escort from the local [[Home Guard  but promises to return. Charlie bemoans that their adventures are over, only for Paul to reveal he still has the magical bedknob, implying that they can at least go anywhere they like.It is the year 1891 and a military doctor, Lieutenant Claude de Ross  a survivor of not one, but two shipwrecks, washes ashore on a mysterious, uncharted Caribbean island along with a handful of convicts. When several of these convicts meet unfortunate ends at the hands of the titular fishmen, Claude and the other survivors flee into the jungle, only to encounter the sadistic Edmond Rackham ([[Richard Johnson  and his beautiful captive Amanda Marvin . Amanda's father, Professor Ernest Marvin , a once-famed biologist, has discovered a way to transform humans into amphibious creatures and controls their every move. Rackham manipulates Marvin into performing the procedure upon both willing and unwilling participants by assuring him that his work is undertaken for purely scientific and humanitarian motives . Having discovered the lost city of Atlantis beneath the waters surrounding the island however, Rackham is in actuality using the half-human monsters to plunder the lost city of its treasures. Shakira , a voodoo priestess in the employ of Rackham foretells death and destruction descending upon the island. The priestess' prophecy is fulfilled as the film ends with Claude and Amanda attempting an escape from a gun-wielding Rackham, a crazed Shakira, uncontrolled fishmen and the very volcano that doomed Atlantis which awakens and threatens to send what unsubmerged landmass remains to oblivion.Bobby "Gator" McKlusky  is serving time in an Arkansas prison for running moonshine when he learns his younger brother Donny was murdered and that Sheriff J.C Conners  was the one behind it. Gator knows the sheriff is taking money from local moonshiners, so he agrees to go undercover for the Feds and try to expose the sheriff. He gets a job running moonshine with Roy Boone  and starts having an affair with his girlfriend Lou . Eventually, when the sheriff discovers Gator is working for the Feds and sends his enforcer Big Bear , Gator decides to go after the sheriff in an epic car chase finale.The film begins in a theater, where a pianist  begins to play a piano accompaniment to the actual film being shown in the theater. Holmes  has just restored a stolen artifact to three French nuns, and is later called on a case by Dr. Mortimer  concerning Sir Henry Baskerville  and a legendary hound that curses the Baskerville estate. Tired and worn out by so many cases, Holmes passes the case onto Dr. Watson , who is portrayed as a Welsh eccentric. Upon arriving at the station, Sir Henry, Dr. Mortimer, Watson and Perkins  are halted by a policeman , who warns them of a murderer stalking the moors, before sending the group on their way. The Barrymores at Baskerville Hall mistreat Sir Henry and Watson, feeding them only cheese and water and then throwing them into a small bedroom, ankle-deep in water. Watson then goes to the village to send a message to Holmes , and meets Mr. Stapleton of Merripit Hall. Stapleton is carrying a chihuahua that proceeds to urinate in Watson's pocket and face. Arriving at Merripit Hall, Watson meets the eccentric Mrs. Stapleton, who displays surreal symptoms suggesting demonic possession. Late at night, Sir Henry and Watson discover the Seldons and the escaped murderer, whom Watson recognizes as Mrs. Barrymore's brother Ethel Seldon , having a family dinner. Oddly enough, neither of the men seems to panic at this. Afterward, Holmes arrives and examines the case so far. An invitation arrives for Sir Henry, asking him to dinner at Merripit Hall. Suspecting a trap, Watson goes along with Sir Henry while Holmes observes carefully. Mrs. Stapleton resumes her bizarre acts and begins to vomit pale-blue liquid over Sir Henry, whilst Mr. Stapleton's chihuahua urinates in Watson's soup. Ordered to leave in disgrace, the Stapletons, Dr. Mortimer, Mr. Frankland , and his wife Mary  follow Sir Henry and Watson to kill them, but become trapped in a quagmire. Holmes then proceeds to reveal that the Hound is no more than a large, rather friendly Irish wolfhound owned by the late Sir Charles Baskerville, whose excited barking was misinterpreted as a monstrous beast. He also states that the dog is the sole heir of Sir Charles. With the dog gone, the would-be murderers would have gained the Baskerville fortune and the estate. The film ends on the pianist, who is then hit by vegetables from the audience.The film begins with an opening crawl explaining that the galaxy is in a state of civil war and that spies for the Rebel Alliance have stolen plans to the Galactic Empire's Death Star, a heavily armed and armored space station capable of annihilating an entire planet. Rebel leader Princess Leia  is in possession of the plans, but her ship is captured by Imperial forces under the command of the evil lord Darth Vader . Before she is captured, Leia hides the plans in the memory of an astromech droid called R2-D2 , along with a holographic recording. The small droid flees to the surface of the desert planet Tatooine with fellow protocol droid C-3PO . The droids are quickly captured by Jawa traders, who sell the pair to moisture farmers Owen and Beru Lars ([[Phil Brown  and their nephew, Luke Skywalker . While Luke is cleaning R2-D2, he accidentally triggers part of Leia's message, in which she requests help from Obi-Wan Kenobi. The only "Kenobi" Luke knows of is an old hermit named Ben Kenobi  who lives in the nearby hills. The next morning, upon finding R2-D2 after he escapes to seek Obi-Wan, Luke meets Ben Kenobi, revealing himself to be Obi-Wan. Obi-Wan tells Luke of his days as a Jedi Knight, one of a faction of former galactic peacekeepers who were wiped out by the Empire. Contrary to his uncle's statements, Luke learns that his father Anakin Skywalker fought alongside Obi-Wan as a Jedi Knight before he was betrayed and killed by Vader, Obi-Wan's former pupil who turned to the "dark side of the Force", and gives Luke his father's lightsaber. Obi-Wan views Leia's complete message in which she begs Obi-Wan to take the Death Star plans to her home planet of Alderaan for her father to retrieve and analyze. He then asks Luke to accompany him and learn the ways of the Force. Luke initially refuses, but changes his mind after discovering that Imperial stormtroopers have destroyed his home and killed his aunt and uncle in search of C-3PO and R2-D2. Obi-Wan and Luke hire smuggler Han Solo  and his Wookiee first mate Chewbacca ([[Peter Mayhew  to transport them on their ship, the Millennium Falcon. Upon the Falcon{{'}}s arrival at Alderaan, they find that the planet has been destroyed under the orders of the Death Star's commanding officer Grand Moff Tarkin  to demonstrate the Death Star's power. The Falcon is caught by the nearby Death Star's tractor beam and brought into its hangar bay. While Obi-Wan goes off to disable the tractor beam, Luke discovers that Leia is imprisoned on board and, with the help of Han and Chewbacca, rescues her. After several harrowing escapes, they make their way back to the Falcon, but Obi-Wan sacrifices himself in a lightsaber duel with Vader. The Falcon escapes the Death Star but the Empire has placed a tracking device on the ship to follow them to the rebels' hidden base on Yavin IV. The rebels analyze the Death Star plans, disclosing a vulnerable exhaust port leading to the station's main reactor. Luke joins the assault team, but Han collects his reward for the rescue and plans to leave despite Luke asking him to stay. The rebels suffer heavy losses after several failed attack runs, leaving Luke one of the few surviving pilots. Vader and a group of TIE fighters are about to destroy Luke's ship, but Han Solo returns at the last moment and destroys the TIE Fighters and the blast sends Vader spiraling away. Then Luke successfully destroys the Death Star seconds before it can fire on the rebel base. Luke and Han are subsequently awarded medals by Leia for their heroism.In December 1942, during the Second World War, the soldiers of a Red Army anti-tank gun battery face the onslaught of General von Manstein's armored divisions trying to relieve the besieged 6th Army in Stalingrad.Hot Snow on kin-teatr.ru.{{see also}} The movie revolves around real-life Lithuanian seaman Simas Kudirka, a radio operator on a Soviet fish processing vessel. When his ship meets at sea with a U.S. Coast Guard cutter near Martha's Vineyard in early 1970, Kudirka makes a dramatic leap from the deck, landing on the USCGC Vigilant. He announces that he wishes to defect, but confusion over U.S. policy on defections prevent the Americans from offering him asylum. As the crew of the Vigilant looks on helplessly, Soviet officers are allowed to board the cutter, beat and bind Kudirka, and drag him back to his own ship. This tinderbox political incident occurs during a Soviet/U.S. conference over fishing rights. The ultimate fate of Simas Kudirka provides the core of the script.Allmovie.com - The Defection of Simas KudirkaThe film starts out in live action. We are introduced to Michael Corleone, a 22-year-old virgin playing pinball in New York City. The scene transcends into animation. New York has a diseased, rotten, tough and violent atmosphere. Michael's Italian father, Angelo "Angie" Corleone, is a struggling mafioso who frequently cheats on Michael's Jewish mother, Ida. The couple constantly bicker and try to kill each other. Michael ambles through a catalog of freaks, greasers, and dopers. Unemployed, he dabbles with cartoons, artistically feeding off the grubbiness of his environment. He regularly hangs out at a local bar where he gets free drinks from the female black bartender, Carole, in exchange for sketches of the somewhat annoying Shorty, Carole's violent, legless bouncer devotee. One of the regular customers at the bar named Snowflake, a nymphomaniac transvestite, gets beat up by a tough drunk who has only just realized that Snowflake is a man in drag and not a beautiful woman. Shorty throws the drunk out and the bar's white manager abusively confronts Carole over this. Fed up with her manager, Carole quits. Shorty offers to let Carole stay at his place, but not wanting to get involved with him, Carole tells Shorty that she's staying with Michael, and that they've been "secretly tight for a long time." Michael is turned on by her no-nonsense attitude and strong sense of self-reliance. This relationship also arouses his father's racist fury, as well as the jealousy of Shorty. Michael and Carole decide to move out of Michael's parents' house and try to earn enough money to move to California, in order to avoid Shorty. Michael gets a chance to pitch a comic strip idea to an old executive lying on his death bed, who seems enthusiastic enough to listen to the idea. Michael's story is too much for the mogul and he dies during the pitch. Meanwhile, Carole tries to work as a taxi dancer. Michael acting as her manager, tries to pass her off as "the fourth Andrews Sister" . A quick flash of her panties gives an old man a heart attack, and Carole gets fired. Meanwhile, Angie tries to use his Mafia connections to put a murder contract out on his son for "disgracing the family" by dating a black woman. The Godfather refuses to do this, because the hit is "personal, not business". However, Shorty eventually meets up with Angie, and agrees to do the contract. Michael and Carole turn to crime as a means of getting by, with Carole taking the role of a prostitute. Carole flirts with a sleazy businessman, and brings him to a hotel room, where Michael beats him to death with a lead pipe. The two walk out into the pinball background with the dead man's cash. Just then, Shorty shows up and shoots Michael in the head. The bullet is seen going through his skull in slow motion. We see a kaleidoscope of shocking images and horrifying events before throwing back to the live action story. The "real" Michael destroys a pinball machine after it tilts, and walks out onto the street, bumps into the "real" Carole, and follows her into the park. The two are seen briefly arguing before they finally take each others hands and begin dancing in the park.The mysterious Michael Rimmer  appears at a small and ailing British advertising agency, where the employees assume he is working on a time and motion study. However, he quickly begins to assert a de facto authority over the firm’s mostly ineffectual staff and soon acquires control of the business from the incompetent boss Ferret . Rimmer then succeeds in establishing the newly invigorated firm as the country’s leading polling agency, and begins to make regular TV appearances as a polling expert. He subsequently moves into politics, acting as an adviser to the leader of the Tory opposition, and then becomes an MP himself, for the constituency of Budleigh Moor , along the way acquiring a trophy wife . Relying on a combination of charisma and deception--and murder--he then rapidly works his way up the political ladder to become prime minister , and finally, by public demand, a near-dictatorial president. Ferret attempts an assassination from a window when Rimmer and his wife's opened topped car is in a passing motorcade - but fails. The film satirised the growing influence of PR, spin and opinion polls in British politics,<ref namehttp://www.guardian.co.uk/film/2007/jun/30/television.comedy|titleCook|first30 June 2007|publisher2009-10-14}} as well as parodying political figures of the time such as Harold Wilson and Enoch Powell. Peter Cook admitted later that he had partly based his portrayal of the Rimmer character on David Frost, who had provided funding for the film<ref nameThompson|firstPeter Cook: A Biography|publisher1997|pages0-340-64969-0}} and took an executive producer credit. Latterly, the film has acquired a fresh contemporary relevance in that Michael Rimmer's character and career seem eerily predictive of Tony Blair .Cyrus , leader of the Gramercy Riffs, the most powerful gang in New York City, calls a midnight summit of all New York area gangs, requesting them to send nine unarmed representatives to Van Cortlandt Park. The Warriors, from Coney Island, Brooklyn, are one such gang. Cyrus proposes the assembled crowd a permanent citywide truce that would allow the gangs to control the city. Most of the gangs laud his idea, but Luther , leader of the Rogues, shoots Cyrus and frames the Warriors. The Warriors "warlord" Cleon  is beaten down by the Riffs who believe the Warriors are responsible for Cyrus' death. With Cleon's fate unknown the other Warriors escape. Unbeknownst to the Warriors the Riffs call a hit on them through a radio DJ . Swan , the gang's "war chief", takes charge of the group and they head back to the subway. On the way, the Turnbull ACs attempt to apprehend the Warriors but they manage to escape and board the subway. On the ride to Coney Island, the train is stopped by a fire on the tracks, stranding the Warriors in Tremont, in the Bronx. Setting out on foot, they come across a gang called the Orphans who were not invited to Cyrus' meeting and who are sensitive regarding their low status in the city hierarchy. Swan makes peace with the Orphans leader, Sully , who agrees to let the Warriors through their territory peacefully. However, a woman named Mercy  mocks Sully as a "chicken" and instigates a confrontation, which the Warriors avoid by using a Molotov cocktail. Mercy decides to follow the Warriors. When they arrive at the 96th Street and Broadway station in Manhattan, they are chased by police. Three of them make the train to Union Square, while Fox , struggling with a police officer, falls to the tracks and is run over by a train while Mercy escapes. Swan and the remaining three Warriors run outside, and are chased into Riverside Park by the Baseball Furies where a fight ensues and the Warriors emerge victorious. After the fight, Ajax  notices a lone woman  in the park, becomes sexually aggressive and is arrested when the woman turns out to be an undercover female police officer. Arriving at Union Square, Vermin , Cochise ([[David Harris , and Rembrandt  are seduced by an all-female gang called the Lizzies. Back at their hangout, the Lizzies draw weapons, but the trio narrowly escape, learning in the process that everyone believes they killed Cyrus. Having gone ahead on his own, Swan returns to the 96th Street station, and finds Mercy there. More police show up and Swan and Mercy flee into the tunnel. They have an argument and Swan continues to Union Square where he reunites with the other Warriors. A fight ensues with the Punks but the Warriors defeat them. The Riffs are meanwhile visited by a gang member who attended the earlier gathering, a witness to Luther firing the gun. The Warriors finally arrive at Coney Island, but find the Rogues waiting for them. Swan suggests he and Luther fight one-on-one, but Luther pulls his gun. Swan throws a knife into Luther's wrist, disarming him. The Riffs then arrive and apprehend the Rogues as the Warriors walk off down the beach. The DJ announces that the big alert is called off when it turns out that the earlier reports were wrong.
In 1918, against the background of political events following the Russo-Japanese War, a geisha serves a new customer. Though he is about to be married, and it is against the rules, she falls in love with him.In 1942 British India, Harnam  betrays a freedom fighter, and as a result is rewarded, but the freedom fighter is killed, leaving his wife, Ganga  and family devastated and destitute. Years later, after the Indian Independence in 1947, the freedom fighter's son, Bharat , has grown up and goes to London for higher studies. On his arrival in Britain, He meets his father's college friend, Sharma  with his westernized wife, Rita  and daughter, Preeti  and the hippie son, Shankar . Preeti has long blonde hair, wears mini-dresses, smokes and drinks and has no idea of Indian values till she meets Bharat. He is, of course, shocked to see that many Indians in London are ashamed of their roots and even changed their names to sound Western. Or others who long for their country, but stay in the UK for economic reasons. Like Sharma with his stack of KL Saigal records. He takes it upon himself to try and change their way of thinking while both Bharat and Preeti fall in love with each other. Later on, with his mother's and Guruji 's approval, he promised to marry Preeti. Preeti is impressed by Bharat's idealism and wants to marry him, but doesn't want to live in India. Bharat wants her to come to India and see what it's like before she rejects it. Of course, the purity of India redeems her and she gives up smoking, drinking and minis to adopt the traditional lifestyle.The picaresque story follows its protagonist, Pasqualino  who, as a dandy and small-time hood in Naples, to save the family honour, is sent to prison for killing a pimp  who had turned Pasqualino's sister into a prostitute. Convicted and sent to prison, Pasqualino succeeds in being transferred to a psychiatric ward. Desperate to get out, he volunteers for the Italian Army, but then somewhere in Germany he deserts with a comrade. They are captured and sent to a concentration camp. There, in a bid to save his own life, Pasqualino decides to gain the sexual favors of the obese and ugly female commandant . His plan succeeds, except for the fact that he is then put in charge of the barracks as a kapo, and is obliged to select six men to be killed under the threat that if he doesn't do so, they will all be killed. Pasqualino ends up executing the soldier with whom he was captured and being responsible for the death of another fellow prisoner, a Spanish anarchist. At the war's end, upon his return to Naples, Pasqualino discovers that his seven sisters, his fiancée and even his mother have all survived through prostitution.A literary drama telling the story of Jin-seok, a Korean veteran of the Vietnam War, and his marital life. His wife Sun-ok, runs a company that makes goods from bamboo. Her habitual stutter is passed on to their son. Jin-seok has an affair with Chu-wol, a femme fatale who schemes to ruin his family. Jin-seok manages to escape the bad influence of Chu-wol, and his son's stutter is cured.Synopsis from {{cite web}}Vijay Pal Singh  is a disgraced Merchant Navy captain who is branded a coward, humiliated by society and disowned by his parents for abandoning ship risking the lives of over 300 passengers . Feeling guilty over his cowardice and with low self-esteem, he starts working as a coal miner to forget his past. He meets and becomes friends with Ravi , an engineer incharge of the mine. He also makes an enemy in another co-worker named Mangal  who is an escaped criminal working in the mine to avoid the police. Vijay's past comes to haunt him as he sees Mangal causing trouble for the coal miners and angry over his cowardice over what happened when he was in the navy, Vijay tries to defend the miners against Mangal. Ravi eventually gets Vijay and Mangal to be friends after circumstances surrounding the mine force Mangal to change himself. The one person who supports Vijay him in his life is Dr Sudha Sen  who tries to make Vijay face up to his past and move on. Ravi and Mangal also get involved in their own romances with Anita  and Channo  respectively. When Seth Dhanraj  makes lives difficult for the coal miners by giving them poor equipment, less than sufficient medical supplies and lack of facilities, Vijay, Ravi and Mangal forcefully come together to fight for justice against Dhanraj when water floods the mines endangering the lives of hundreds of workers including that of Shatrughna Sinha. The disaster actually took place at a place called Chasnala in erswhile Bihar . The film, though not a commercial hit then, had it's own intensity and fire in it. Especially for the character Vijay Pal Singh played by Yash Chopra's favorite Vijay Amitabh Bachchan. He didn't have much dialogues and he rather emoted with his fiery eyes. His base baritone set the right tone for the content and his various emotions come out in the form of frustration, anger, love, compassion and disgust. His chracter was neatly supported by many other legends of that time like Shashi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, Raakhee Gulzar, Parveen Babi, Prem Chopra etc. The movie is now termed as a Yash Chopra classic.Saori is the wealthy, unfaithful wife of the impotent Kosaku. When she returns from a trip abroad, Tsumura, Kosaku's assistant, meets her and takes Saori to an apartment. There Tsumura rapes her and submits her to various sexual tortures while she is photographed by photo-journalist Tayama. Her husband, Kosaku uses the photographs to blackmail Saori into giving him control of the family estate. Saori is returned to her mansion, but kept in a cage in the basement where she is subjected to regular bouts of abuse from Tsumura. Besides rape, other indignities endured by Lady Saori include breast bondage, enemas and the insertion of hen's eggs into her vagina. After Kosaku dies from a stroke, Saori realizes that she has come to enjoy Tsumura's treatment.{{cite journal}}<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn222}}Orphaned and abused at a very young age, a young boy faces the harsh side of life as he struggles to make a living by slaving day and night working in the house of a wealthy man named Ramnath. Ramnath does not like him: it is later revealed that another orphan had taken advantage of his kindness in the past, hence his animosity. Ramnath's daughter Kaamna, however, empathizes with the boy and they form a friendship. Eventually he is adopted by a Muslim woman who also works for Ramnath, Fatima, who decides to name him Sikandar. On the occasion of Kaamna's birthday Sikandar, who had promised to replace one of her dolls which he'd broken, steals an expensive doll from a shop to give as a gift. However, Ramnath refuses to let the boy attend the party, and when Sikandar breaks into Kaamna's room to deliver the doll he is caught and accused of trying to rob the house. He and his mother are banished from Ramnath's home. Shortly thereafter, Fatima dies, leaving young Sikandar with the responsibility of looking after her daughter, Mehroo. As Sikandar is crying in the graveyard, a fakir comes to him and asks him to embrace the woes of life and find happiness in sadness, for then he would become the conqueror of fate. The sequence cuts to a grown up Sikandar  zooming on his motorbike singing his favourite tune. It is then revealed that Sikandar has amassed a fortune by turning in smuggled goods to the police and receiving the reward payouts. With all his wealth he has managed to build an impressive house for himself along with setting up a profitable business. Sikandar still has not forgotten Kaamna  from his childhood. She and her father have fallen on hard times, and Sikandar is anonymously supporting them. Eventually he gets up the nerve to try to talk to Kaamna, but she still believes that he betrayed her family, and she snubs him. Sikandar is upset by the refusal and becomes a heavy drinker. He also visits Zohra Begam's  kotha on a regular basis. One night in the bar Sikandar meets up with Advocate Vishal  and a friendship is formed between them when Vishal risks his own life to save Sikandar from a bomb blast. Sikandar introduces Vishal to Ramnath and the two begin to work together. Zora Begam eventually falls in love with Sikandar, and this in turn angers Dilawar  a hard core criminal who loves Zohra and will kill any one who lays an eye on her. Upon finding that Sikandar is frequently visiting Zohra, Dilawar confronts Sikandar and in the ensuing fight is thrashed by him. He swears to kill Sikandar. Kaamna discovers Sikandar's kindness to her family and goes to thank him. Encouraged, Sikandar tries to profess his love to Kaamna through a love letter. Because Sikandar himself is illiterate, Vishal transcribes the letter for him, but the plan backfires when Kaamna mistakes the letter as actually being from Vishal. Vishal, unaware that Kaamna is the girl Sikandar loves, reciprocates her love, and the two begin to date. Sikandar, upon learning this, struggles with his emotions but decides he must sacrifice his love for the sake of his friendship with Vishal. Vishal and Kaamna plan to marry. Sikandar's visits to Zohra Begum have hampered his reputation, and his sister Mehroo's upcoming marriage is at risk of being cancelled because of this habit. Vishal then visits Zohra and offers to pay her for the rest of his life if she will leave Sikandar alone. Zohra, upon learning the reason, promises Vishal that she would sooner die than let Sikandar visit her again. Later, Sikandar arrives at Zohra's and she refuses to let him in. Sikandar demands entry, and when Zohra is unable to stop him she kills herself by swallowing a diamond, and dies in his arms. Dilawar in the meanwhile has formed an alliance with Sikandar's arch enemy, JD, and upon learning of Zohra's death hatches a plan to destroy Sikandar and his family. Kaamna and Mehroo are both preparing for their weddings; JD and his henchmen kidnap Sikandar's sister Mehroo but Vishal follows them and rescues her. Dilawar kidnaps Kaamna, but Sikandar follows him. He rescues Kaamna and sends her home while he battles Dilawar. In the final battle both Dilawar and Sikandar are mortally wounded, and Sikandar tells Dilawar that he never loved Zohra. A dying Sikandar reaches the wedding of Kaamna and Vishal. Just as the wedding ceremony is completed, Sikandar collapses. His dying words inadvertently reveal his love for Kaamna, and Vishal sings him his favourite song, "Life is going to betray you someday...Death is your true love as it'll take you along..." Sikandar's entire life flashes before him and he dies in Vishal's arms just as the song is completed.A girl who has escaped from an institution falls in love with Tora-san. He decides to marry her, but his family and the girl's teacher break up the romance.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/19438|title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}{{cite web}}The chief of Mount Hua and the leaders of Eight Schools sends famed martial artist, Guo Jiou Ru to locate a coveted manual written by the late King of the Martial World. Split into two parts, the manual details skills to turn the practitioner into a supreme fighter. The Yin family possesses one of the books while the Winged Tiger, Teng Fei has the other. In a bid to secure the manuals for himself, the King of Hades sets up his sister to marry Teng Fei. Guo, with his proficiency in ventriloquism and comparable skills to Teng Fei, is to impersonate him and infiltrate the Yin household to steal away the other manual.Sapna , a slum dweller of Bombay seeks refuge from a drunken outburst of her foster father . Heera , a playboy smuggler, has an eye on Sapna and wants to have her for his pleasure. Amit , an educated taxi driver saves Sapna from the clutches of Heera but soon she is accused of attempting. Sapna is sent to prison for six months. Sapna's mother  in a fit of anger kills Sapna's foster father. Amit promises to marry Sapna on her acquittal but on the eve of their marriage Amit's father  refuses to accept it. Not wanting to break up Amit's family Sapna quietly walks out of his life and leaves the city. Amit and his friend Pyarelal  search for Sapna but do not succeed. In Calcutta, Sapna becomes an instant hit on the stage through Ashok Babu . One day, Ashok proposes to her. Does Sapna climb down from her ladder of fame and return to her poor past? Or does she marry Ashok and opt for a life of fame?An ordinary Prague family, the Lavička's, yearns to have a house in the countryside. They make a deal with the charismatic old Mr Komárek  that they will rent part of his summerhouse and that he will live there until spring, and then move to his son in Slovakia and sell the house to them. As time goes by, however, he does not appear to be preparing for his leave, and while Věra Lavičková tries to get her husband, Oldřich, to remind Mr Komárek about their deal, Oldřich is not up to it and is instead making friends with the good-natured old man.Yaşar and his wife Nezaket have kept on producing children in the hope of finally getting a male child. But they end up with only daughters instead . Now they are stuck with the task of arranging suitable rich husbands for them.Gopal Sivaji Ganesan and Gowri K. R. Vijaya are salespeople in competing organisations. They are professional rivals and end up sharing rooms in the same house belonging to an English. Naidu M. R. Radha and his Kannada wife Manorama are caretakers of the house where Mohan and Gowri stay. Gopal and Gowri get married and both quit their jobs on the same day. Naidu and his wife lend them some money to start a business. Gopal's business becomes successful and Gowri and Mohan have a son and are about to have another baby. A Punjabi family led by Baldev Singh  move into one of the portions. A Malayalee Muslim led by Ibrahim  family take up residence in other part of the same house. After some initial hiccups, the four families settle down and become close friends. Gopal's secretary Kamala tries to vamp him and her brother takes a photo of the two of them together and begins to blackmail Gopal. His neighbours help him fight off the blackmailer and this seals the bond between them even more strongly. When the house owner decides to sell the house and return to England, the families buy the house together with Gopal paying Naidu's share. They call the house Bharatha Vilas, since it houses people from all parts of the country. The movie catches up with the residents of Bharatha Vilas after many years. Gopal is now even more successful and slightly arrogant about his wealth. His daughter is very close to Ibrahim's family and considers his son Hamid as her brother. Someone sends an anonymous letter about their relationship and Gopal cuts off all contact with Ibrahim and fixes his daughter's wedding with one of his relatives. Ibrahim comes to know about this and kicks his son out of the house, Hamid joins the army and war is declared almost immediately. Meanwhile Gopal's son and Baldev Singh's daughter – who are both medical students - are in love without their parent's knowledge. Hamid is killed in the war and a letter he wrote before he left for battle makes it clear to Gopal that his daughter and Hamid were just like siblings. Gopal and Ibrahim reconcile. Gopal suddenly suffers a huge loss in business and is unable to pay the dowry for his daughter. When the groom's family pressures him, his neighbours pay him money for the dowry. Gopal finally learns the difference between friends and enemies and arranges his daughter's marriage with Naidu's son. Naidu agrees on the condition that Gopal agrees to get his son married to Baldev Singh's daughter. The neighbours finally become one large happy family.During 1904, Morocco is the source of conflict by the powers of Imperial Germany, France, and the British Empire, all of whom are trying to establish a sphere of influence in that country. Mulai Ahmed er Raisuli is the commander of a band of Berber insurrectionists opposed to the young Sultan Abdelaziz and his uncle, the Bashaw  of Tangier, whom Raisuli considers as corrupt and beholden to the Europeans. He kidnaps Eden Pedecaris and her children, William and Jennifer, in a raid on their home, during which Sir Joshua Smith, a British friend of Eden's, was killed. Raisuli then issues an outrageous ransom demand, deliberately attempting to provoke an international incident in order to embarrass the Sultan and start a civil war. In the United States, President Theodore Roosevelt is struggling for re-election. He decides to use the kidnapping as both political propaganda  and as an effort to demonstrate America's military strength as a new power—despite the protests of his cautious Secretary of State, John Hay. The American Consul to Tangier, Samuel Gummere, is unable to negotiate a peaceful return of the hostages, so Roosevelt sends the South Atlantic Squadron, under the command of Admiral French Ensor Chadwick, to Tangier, either to retrieve Pedecaris themselves or to force the Sultan to accede to Raisuli's demands. During the story, however, Roosevelt finds himself gaining more and more respect for Raisuli, thinking him an honorable man who just happens to be his enemy. The Pedecarises are kept as hostages by the Raisuli in the Rif, far from any potential rescuers. Though her children seem to admire Raisuli, Eden finds him "a brigand and a lout." The Pedecarises attempt an escape, helped by one of Raisuli's men, but they are betrayed and given to a gang of desert thieves. Luckily, Raisuli has tracked them and kills the kidnappers with rifle and sword. He reveals that he does not have any intention of harming the Pedecarises and is merely bluffing. Eden and Raisuli become enamored of each other as Raisuli reveals his story — that he was once taken captive by his brother, the Bashaw, and kept in a dungeon for several years. Gummere, Chadwick and his aide, Marine Captain Jerome, tire of the Sultan's perfidy and the meddling of the European powers and decide to engage in "military intervention" to force a negotiation by seizing the actual seat of power, the Bashaw's palace in Tangier. Jerome's company of Marines, supported by a small detachment of sailors, march through the streets of Tangier, much to the surprise of the European legations, whose forces are with the Sultan at distant Fez, and overwhelm the Bashaw's palace guard, taking the Bashaw hostage and forcing him to negotiate. By such coercion, the Bashaw finally agrees to accede to the Raisuli's demands. But during a hostage exchange, Raisuli is betrayed and captured by German and Moroccan troops under the command of Von Roerkel, while Jerome and a small contingent of Marines are present to secure the Pedecarises. While Raisuli's friend, the Sherif of Wazan, organizes the Berber tribe for an attack on the Europeans and Moroccans, Eden attacks Jerome and convinces him and his men to rescue the Raisuli to uphold the word of President Roosevelt that he would be unharmed if the Pedecarises were returned safely. A three-way battle results, in which the Berbers and Americans team to defeat the Germans and their Moroccan allies, rescuing Raisuli in the process. In the United States, Roosevelt is cheered for this great victory, and the Pedecarises arrive safely back in Tangier. Roosevelt reads a letter he received from Raisuli, comparing the two men : "I , like the lion, must stay in my place, while you, like the wind, will never know yours."The story is set in the Republic of Salò, the Fascist-occupied portion of Italy in 1944. Four men of power, the Duke , the Bishop, the Magistrate , and the President , agree to marry each other's daughters as the first step in a debauched ritual. With the aid of several collaborating young men, they kidnap eighteen young men and women , and take them to a palace near Marzabotto. Accompanying them are four middle-aged prostitutes, also collaborators, whose function will be to recount erotically arousing stories for the men of power, who, in turn, will sadistically exploit their victims. The story depicts some of the many days at the palace, during which the four men of power devise increasingly abhorrent tortures and humiliations for their own pleasure. In the Anteinferno segment, the captures of some victims by the collaborators are shown, and, later, the four lords examining them. The Circle of Manias presents some of the stories in the first part of Sade's book, told by Mrs. Vaccari . In the Circle of Shit, the passions escalate in intensity from mainly non-penetrative sex to coprophagia. One scene shows a young woman forced to eat the feces of the Duke; later, the other victims are presented a giant meal of human feces. The Circle of Blood starts with a black mass-like wedding between the guards and the men of power, after which the Bishop is sodomized by his assistant. The Bishop then leaves to examine the captives in their rooms, where they start systematically betraying each other: one girl is revealed to be hiding a photograph, two girls are shown to be having a secret sexual affair, and finally, a collaborator  and the black servant  are shot down after being found having sex. Toward the end, the remaining victims are murdered through methods like scalping, branding, and having their tongues and eyes cut out, as each libertine takes his turn to watch as voyeur. The film's final shot is of two young soldiers, who had witnessed and collaborated in all of the prior atrocities, dancing a simple waltz together.A woman born for love. A man born to love her. A timeless moment in a world gone mad. Giovanna  and Antonio  get married to delay Antonio's deployment during World War II. After that buys them twelve days of happiness, they try another scheme, in which Antonio pretends to be a crazy man. Finally, Antonio is sent to the Russian Front. When the war is over, Antonio does not return and is listed as missing in action. Despite the odds, Giovanna is convinced her true love has survived the war and is still in Russia. Determined, she journeys to Russia to find him. In Russia, Giovanna visits the sunflower fields, where there is supposedly one flower for each fallen Italian soldier, and where the Germans forced the Italians to dig their own mass graves. Eventually, Giovanna finds Antonio, but by now he has started a second family with a woman who saved his life, and they have one daughter. Childless, having been faithful to her husband, Giovanna returns to Italy, heartbroken, but unwilling to disrupt her love's new life. Some years later, Antonio returns to Giovanna, asking her to come back with him to Russia. Meanwhile, Giovanna has tried to move on with her own life, moving out of their first home together and into her own apartment. She has started dating again, has given birth to a baby boy, and is living as a single parent. He explains his new life, how war changes a man, how safe he felt with his new woman after years of death. Unwilling to ruin Antonio's daughter's or her own new son's life, Giovanna refuses to leave Italy, expressing an intense emotional maturity in her choice. As they part, Antonio gives her a fur, which he had promised years before that he'd bring back for her. The lovers lock eyes as Antonio's train takes him away from Giovanna, and from Italy, forever.In 1972, during Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution, Michelangelo Antonioni was invited by the People's Republic of China to direct a documentary about New China. Only permitted to visit certain parts of the country,http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0068375/plotsummary the director traveled with his crew for eight weeks in Beijing, Nanjing, Suzhou, Shanghai, and Henan. The result was a three and a half hour long film, divided into three parts. Mao and his wife Jiang Qing disliked it so much that Michelangelo Antonioni was consequently charged with being anti-Chinese as well as counterrevolutionary.http://www.marxists.org/subject/china/peking-review/1974/PR1974-08d.htm The movie was finally shown at Beijing's Cinema Institute 30 years later.In August 1953, the 13-year old Tom Allan attends a Catholic seminary in Melbourne, Australia. Students and brothers face individual challenges of faith and self-restraint.Tora-san returns from his travels throughout Japan to his family's home in Tokyo to find his uncle recovering from an illness. After a family fight erupts, he returns to the road and becomes friends with Tomekichi. When the pair come to Tokyo, they both fall in love with stage dancers.{{cite web}}Sam Dalmas  is an American writer currently living in Rome with his model girlfriend Giulia . Suffering from a writer's block, Sam is on the verge of returning to the U.S., but witnesses the attack of a woman  by a mysterious black-gloved assailant dressed in a raincoat. Attempting to reach her, Sam is trapped between two mechanically-operated glass doors and can only watch as the villain makes his escape. The woman, Monica Ranieri, the wife of the gallery's owner, survives the attack, but the local police confiscates Sam's passport to stop him from leaving the country; the assailant is believed to be a serial killer who is terrorizing the city, and they believe the writer to be an important witness. Sam is haunted by what he saw that night, feeling sure that some vital clue is evading him, and soon finds that both he and his girlfriend are the killer's new targets. Receiving menacing phone calls he manages to isolate an odd cricketing noise in the background, which is later revealed to be the call of a rare bird from the Southern Caucasus, called "The Bird with Crystal Plumage" due to the diaphanous glint of its feathers. This proves important since the only one of its kind in Rome is kept in the Italian capital's zoo, allowing Sam and the police to identify the killer's abode. In the end, Sam chases the mysterious assailant through a darkened building. He is trapped once more, this time pinned to the floor by release of a wall-sized sculpture of wire and metal. Unable to free himself, he becomes the prey of the person he was pursuing—the attractive, deranged wife of the gallery owner. This climax to the mystery, with strong sado-masochistic elements, has the knife-wielding lady teasing Sam in preparation to stabbing him. She fails, of course, and Sam provides the obligatory wrap-up scene with his girlfriend.Ramesh's  daily routine involves driving along with his friends, seducing young women and ditching them.He targets Suvarna, a middle class girl who comes from a village for education. Suvarna is accompanied by her cousin Prasad Babu who wants to marry her and becomes jealous when he finds Suvarna in Ramesh's car. He warns her, but Suvarna gets attracted towards Ramesh and one fine day Ramesh ditches her. Later Suvarna knows that Ramesh met with an accident and is now unable to walk and is spending time in a wheelchair. She uses Ramesh's cousin and finds a place in his home and treats him as a nurse. Meanwhile Ramesh's mother and uncle plan to get him married to his uncle's daughter. Suvarna teases Ramesh in every possible manner making him realize his mistake and helplessness. Ramesh realizes his mistakes and decides to marry Suvarna and talks to her father. Against her father's will, Suvarna marries Ramesh, but discovers that Ramesh lost his potency. Following the advice of her doctor, she intentionally hurts Ramesh's ego and leaves his house. Hurt, Ramesh decides to prove himself by standing on his legs. He drives to her house and forces himself on her. In the end, Suvarna is happy that Ramesh got back his legs and a changed Ramesh lives happily with her.http://www.idlebrain.com/celeb/starhomes/chiranjeevi/filmography.htmlKrishna is son of a rich businessman couple . Bharathi is a rich lady daughter of another rich man . Krishna is grown up without knowing or facing any problems and gets a new car. While driving in competition with his friend Satyam , he accidentally kills Balaiah's brother and blinds Balaiah. The consequences of this event is the story of the film.Tribes tells the story of Private Adrian , a young United States Marine Corps Vietnam war era draftee who, despite being an anti-war hippie, reluctantly reports to boot camp to fulfill his duty as an American. Adrian naturally excels as a leader, though his pacifist ideology presents continuing conflicts between himself and his drill instructor. Adrian's drill instructor, Gunnery Sgt. Thomas Drake , quickly recognizes Adrian's leadership qualities, but is conflicted as he grows to respect Adrian while also realizing that he represents everything Adrian opposes. At one point, Adrian points out that his love of meditation is similar to Drake's drawing to relax, indicating a sketch of a flying bird. Both are ways of finding freedom. Drake responds angrily, denying that he had drawn the picture. Throughout the training, the Chief Drill Instructor , Master Sgt. Frank DePayster , takes an instant dislike to Adrian. He repeatedly argues with Drake about him, claiming that the fact that the man is performing all of his assigned tasks is not enough. He considers Adrian's attitude grounds enough for him to be set back and placed in the Motivational Platoon, a disciplinary unit for problem recruits. Drake disagrees and allows Adrian to graduate. However, DePayster had gone behind his back by filing a complaint against them both with the Company Commanding Officer. Without Drake's approval, the CO flunked Adrian and placed him in Motivational Platoon under DePayster. Drake accuses DePayster of carrying out a personal vendetta, to which DePayster replies "I'll forget I heard that." Drake takes the drawing of the bird from his desk drawer and hangs it up, thus signifying his own method of rebellion and freedom. The platoon graduates without Adrian. As Drake awaits a new batch of recruits, DePayster informs him that Adrian deserted during the night.Police inspector Anand is very honest,he known for his honesty, diligence and bravery . He single handedly captures and arrests notorious smuggler and criminal Jack Ranjit, who is sentenced to several years of jail. Anand Vinod Khanna in disguise, also captures gangster Gulkhan Amjad Khan, who is also sentenced to a long term in jail. Anand's wife Rekha is not very honest and trustworthy and has an affair with another man named Somesh. There are a lot of fights and arguments between husband and wife and Anand threatens to kill her. He starts following his wife hoping to catch her and Somesh redhanded. Shortly after that Rekha and Somesh are found dead and Anand is arrested for their murder though he has not killed them. To prove his innocence and to find the real murderers he escapes from jail and surprisingly comes back face to face with his foes. Ultimately he is proved innocent and the real murderer is arrested.http://www.gomolo.in/Movie/MovieSynopsisUser.aspx?mid1171463Sagar  defies his wealthy family by marrying a poor girl named Sarita  and therefore is cut out of his family's inheritance. He then decides to make a living by driving a cab. Sarita feels guilty that he left his wealth behind to marry her. She raises Rs.10,000 from a loan shark but lies to her husband saying she got it from her uncle. She then asks her husband to give the money to a stockbroker friend to invest. When the investment doesn't result in healthy dividends, Sarita becomes desperate to raise the money to repay the loan shark. She inadvertently gets hooked up with a madam ([[Nadira  who sends clients to her apartment. Sarita gets into humorous incidents as she avoids contact with her male clients.Abel Rosenberg is an American Jew in Berlin after World War I. Poverty and inflation have destroyed the German economy at the time. He lives with his sister-in-law Manuela, a prostitute and cabaret performer. The story takes place in the week following his brother's death. Abel takes a job offered by an acquaintance, Professor Hans Vergerus.Outside of the city of Nazareth, a young boy and his father own four donkeys. Three of these donkeys are young and strong. The fourth donkey, Small One, is old and weak, but the boy loves him anyway. Everyday, the boy and the donkey play together before they go to work, helping the boy's father to collect wood. The boy and his father take the donkeys to work one morning, as they always do. Many times, the boy loads Small One with small sticks, since Small One can't carry heavy loads any more. Small One even has trouble carrying stacks of small sticks and the boy helps to carry them for him. That evening, the boy's father tells the boy that he has to sell Small One. Devastated, but understanding, the boy asks if he can be the one to sell his best friend. The father agrees and tells him that he has to sell him for one piece of silver. That night, the boy comforts Small One and promises to find him a gentle and loving master. The next morning, the boy takes Small One to the market in Nazareth. Unfortunately, nobody wants an old weak donkey but the tanner, and he only wants to kill Small One to make leather out of his hide. After failing to find another buyer, the boy and his donkey return to the tanner's shop. The boy weeps, and Small One, accepting his fate under the tanner's knife, tenderly consoles the boy. Just as everything looks bleak, a kind man comes up to the boy and asks if Small One is for sale. The man needs a gentle donkey to carry his pregnant wife to Bethlehem. The boy sells the donkey for one piece of silver  and watches as the couple and Small One leave on their journey as a bright star appears in the sky.A piano tuner on holiday in San Francisco, Kyoko , meets Tetsuo , a Japanese layabout on the run from his debts in Japan. Kyoko tells Tetsuo she is a pianist who has come to San Francisco to kill herself. After enjoying a night in a bar full of exciting people, they become romantically involved, and she admits she was lying. Kyoko starts living in Tetsuo's apartment but then has to leave. She persuades Tetsuo to come back to Japan in September. Kyoko comes back to Japan and returns to her job tuning pianos. She is hit by a truck. The driver, Okouchi, apologizes, and offers compensation. But she refuses the offer, saying the accident was her fault. He falls in love with Kyoko, and proposes marriage. However, Kyoko cannot forget Tetsuo. She mails several letters to San Francisco but gets no reply. She later discovers the bar at which he promised to meet her does not exist. She flies to San Francisco, and finds Tetsuo lying in bed. An American woman emerges from the shower topless. Kyoko runs away. Tetsuo runs after her to the airport but she has already left. Tetsuo decides to go to Japan in pursuit of Kyoko. Back in Japan, Kyoko decides to marry Okouchi. Tetsuo turns up at the door and gets frustrated. Okouchi punches him when he tries to talk to Kyoko on the street. Tetsuo goes to deal with his debts, and ends up in jail. Kyoko and Okouchi get married and go to San Francisco for their honeymoon. Tetsuo's father gets him out of jail and lends Tetsuo his car to chase after Kyoko. Tetsuo intercepts them on the plane to America. He finally gains her attention by singing the song "Furimukeba Ai". Okouchi starts a fight with Tetsuo. Neither man emerges a clear winner but Okouchi decides he has had enough. Kyoko finds Tetsuo at the top of the hill overlooking the Golden Gate Bridge where they first met. Like the first time, Tetsuo is flying a kite; only this time, the kite reads "Kyoko".In Okinawa an ancient statue is unearthed with a prophecy inscribed on it: When a black mountain appears in the sky and the sun rises in the West, a monster will arise to destroy the world. The statue of the mythical monster King Caesar, protector of Okinawa, is vital should the prophecy come true. Before long, the signs appear: a giant black mountain shaped cloud is seen and a mirage creates the illusion of a Western sunrise. Godzilla emerges from Mount Fuji and begins a destructive rampage. Former ally Anguirus confronts "Godzilla", only to be violently defeated when Godzilla breaks Anguirus' jaw. Another Godzilla shows up to battle the rampaging Godzilla and reveals it to be an impostor. It is Mechagodzilla, a robot created by ape aliens of the Third Planet from the Black Hole to destroy the real Godzilla and conquer Earth. Mecha-Godzilla unleashes his full arsenal and a wounded Godzilla collapses into the sea. Too damaged to continue the attack, Mecha-Godzilla retreats for repairs. Returning to Monster Island, Godzilla is repeatedly energized by mysterious bolts of lightning. His repairs completed, Mecha-Godzilla is unleashed to destroy King Caesar, but Godzilla comes to the rescue. After a bloody battle between the three titans, Godzilla generates a magnetic field against Mecha-Godzilla, dragging the metal robot within reach. Godzilla twists Mecha-Godzilla's head off and the robot's body explodes. The aliens' base explodes, and both King Caesar and Godzilla return home.{{Main}} Cervantes and his manservant have been imprisoned by the Spanish Inquisition, and a manuscript by Cervantes is seized by his fellow inmates, who subject him to a mock trial in order to determine whether the manuscript should be returned. Cervantes' defense is in the form of a play, in which Cervantes takes the role of Alonso Quijano, an old gentleman who has lost his mind and now believes that he should go forth as a knight-errant. Quijano renames himself Don Quixote de La Mancha, and sets out to find adventures with his "squire", Sancho Panza.After his business partner leaves him penniless, Parvati's husband passes away, leaving behind two sons, Prabhakar , Sudhakar  and a dumb daughter Gauri , on the verge of destitution. When Prabhakar grows up, he marries Pooja  and moves out. Meanwhile, as time passes, Sudhakar grows up, completes his schooling, gets a job out of the town and relocates. When Gauri is not allowed to marry Murli , she commits suicide and so does Murli, calling for Sudhakar back home. Sudhakar marries wealthy Padma  and brings her home. Padma dislikes playing second fiddle even to Parvati leading to disagreements in the household. Padma's pregnancy too fails to resolve any of the problems. Thus the couple re-locates to Padma's palatial house in the city, leaving an ailing Parvati on her own. The rest of the film shows how Padma understands the value of family ties and brothers, Prabhakar and Sudhakar, get together to unite the family.Spain in the 1930s. The Rubes clan is headed by the aristocratic father Cecilio, a roué in love with another woman, Paulina, although he lives with his wife and his teenage son, Sisi. His wife hates the thought and practice of normal sexuality in their marriage. Their son notes his parent’s sexual frustrations but must experience his own initiation into the mysteries of love and sex. We watch Sisi grows, mature, and compete with his father for the attentions and sexual favors of the local actresses in Burgos. One day, quite by chance, Sisi meets Paulina, his father’s more or less discarded lover, and they begin a tumultuous affair. Sisi is then inducted into the army and goes off to war. News of his death arrives quickly. Apparently, Sisi was killed by a land mine while driving his army truck. His father wants his wife to bear him another son, but she refuses. The old man, broken hearted by Sisi’s death, returns to his former mistress Paulina, who tells him she is pregnant by his own son. With no other legal heirs, the elder Cecilio Rubes, desperate, jumps off his mistress’s balcony and commits suicide. Paulina had always wanted the elder Rubes’s child but is now content with having one sired by his son.The film tells the story of a Hindu man who adopts a Muslim child and allows her to follow Muslim traditions.Vijay  is the illegitimate son of a construction baron Raj Kumar Gupta ([[Sanjeev Kumar  and his first love Shanti , whom he gives up to marry a wealthy heiress. Shanti comes by to wish him success on his marriage, with the news that she is carrying his child and moving away. She gives birth to son Vijay and raises him into adulthood. After she dies, Vijay comes to Delhi to take revenge by destroying his father's business and family connections. Shashi Kapoor and Poonam Dhillon play his half-siblings who are caught in the crossfire of Vijay's revenge. Vijay also crosses paths with Raakhee, the devoted secretary of Sanjeev Kumar and rival company president Hema Malini.An adventurous American everybody calls Tex and his partner, an Englishman named Ronald, are foiled in their bid to steal Tehran's precious jewels. In the desert, they join up with four others, including a baron, to plot another heist. They have the good fortune of meeting Zari, the beautiful mistress of the infamous bandit Malik, who is after a valuable amulet. So is the man who wants to claim Malik's place in the eyes of all, Nazar, but all does not go well. Ronald is captured and tortured, Nazar shot, and Zari is soon forced to decide if she wishes to continue on to wherever fate takes Tex next.Tang How-Yuen  is a disciple of kung fu master San-Thye. San-Thye wins a martial arts tournament, only to be killed by evil kung fu master, Chung Chien-Kuen . Tang tries unsuccessfully to fight Chung, and leaves the evil master unharmed. Tang, along with San-Thye's wife and daughter head after the killer to seek revenge. When they find him, Chung has repented and has cut off his own leg as penance. The master's widow becomes ill, so Tang goes to work for a gang in order to get her medicine. However, whilst in their employ, he is blamed for the death of a young boy, and San-Thye's widow is poisoned. Tang and the one-legged master join forces to defeat the evil lord who poisoned San-Thye's widow.During the last days of the Yi dynasty, conflict arises between the China-leaning conservatives, and the Western-learning and Japan-leaning reformers over how to rule Korea in the future. The reformer Kim Okgyun helps persuade the king to announce Korea's independence, breaking with China. When a conservative agent informs China, Chinese troops enter Korea and end the reign of independence after three days.<ref namehttp://www.kmdb.or.kr/eng/md_basic.asp?nation02608|title2009-07-21|publisher=Korean Movie Database  }}Ravi  is sent to tutor Rai Saheb's five grandchildren, the eldest of whom is a young woman named Rama . Their father Nilesh ([[Sanjeev Kumar , a talented musician, died not long after his wife's death, so the children were sent to live with their paternal grandfather. The children have driven away their previous tutors and in turn, often get corporal punishment from their great-aunt. After Ravi comes, the children play tricks on him too, but his gentle manner and patient methods win them over. He and Rama fall in love, and the end credits indicate that there will be a wedding between them.The story is about three sisters Srividya, Subha and Jayachitra, each getting attracted to their tenant, a young man played by Sivakumar. Sivakumar falls in love with Jayachitra. However, things take a turn to the worse in the typical Balachander style when Jayachitra sacrifices herself to the whims of a playboy, played by Kamal Haasan in order to save her friend  from his exploits. What happens next, who marries whom, is the crux of a dramatic climax. The movie turns the entire concept of romantic movies by its head - the concept being that the hero does not always have to get the girl.The film is based around a middle-class man, Rajesh  living with his sister. He is in love with a young woman, and he intends to marry her once he has found a potential husband to take care of his sister. However, one day the sister is raped and murdered and the police are unable to find any clues and it is left to Rajesh to find the murderers and avenge her death. He traces the murderer and kills him, and is therefore now on the run from the police himself. Rajesh abducts a child as a hostage and seeks refuge in a house only to later learn that the child is the son of his former lover, who is now married to a Police Inspector. Rajesh is torn in two - whether to release the child, or to use him to make an escape.José Rebolledo has a good job at an advertising company and sincerely loves his wife, Elena. The couple has two children and they all seem the perfect family. Without financial problems they can afford some quirks and have acquired a chalet in the Sierra de Madrid where they spend weekends in the company of family and friends, playing sports and having barbecues. However,for José, within this apparent happiness lies a deep sense of frustration with the lifestyle he has chosen. José finds himself out of place in this bourgeois life and he decides to break with it.The Monk Chi San  is sent by his Shaolin masters to learn a special kung fu from a Wu-Tang priest and befriends his niece Wu Mei . The priests brother is Pie Mei , who disapproves of associating with Shaolin rebels who oppose the Qing leave’s as his nephew  remains behind to cause trouble for Chi San. While Chi San is in training, Pai Mei is promoted by the court and arranges for the Qing soldiers and a northern Lama to attack and destroy Shaolin Temple. Chi San arrives too late as the attack has already run its course, his master orders him to go to the south to search for loyal Shaolin men and rebuild the temple. Pai Mei returns to his brothers temple and arranges for his nephew to poison him, he then attacks the priest himself and kills him for teaching Chi San kung fu. Pai Mei orders the search for Chi San so that he may kill him. Chi San arrives in the south and assists a local businessman who is being robbed. The grateful man takes Chi San into his home. At this point Chi San gains his first student and goes through various integrity “tests” from local businessmen to prove if he is a true Shaolin Monk. Chi San doesn’t disappoint and the impressed businessmen offer to help Chi San rebuild the temple. Chi San also gains more students after their failed attempts to beat him at kung fu. Pai Mei and his nephew then attempt to kill Wu Mei but she is rescued by Chi San and his students. Chi San orders his students to head south to wait on a ferry while he goes after Pai Mei and the Lama. Chi San meets the lama in the woods and defeats him but Pai Mei intercepts Wu Mei and the students. Chi San arrives before Pai Mei can kill them and defeats Pai MeiJakub , a dreamy mail carrier in a sleepy village, spends his days playing pranks on everyone, resenting his father  with his mother's  tacit support, and admiring Jolana  from the neighboring Romani hamlet — until Jolana responds. Faced with mistrust from both Jakub's and Jolana's families and venom from segments of their communities, Jakub pulls one more, grave prank that, he imagines, will help support the two teenagers as they take the train to the nearby city in order to live together. Yet, not only does Jakub's prank — a theft of money from the post office — catch up with him, but it turns out that the two of them have conflicting dreams about life. Jakub has dreamed up an urban version of the stereotypical fantasy of a free-spirited Gypsy life with Jolana, whereas she has dreamed of a grounded life away from her troubled community and applies herself to achieve that. While Jakub goes from fantasy to prison to fantasy, Jolana gets a steady job and begins to realize that Jakub is no more her fantasy of a down-to-earth Gojo  than she is his "Gypsy woman". As Jolana, back in the Romani hamlet, celebrates her wedding to her persistent Romani suitor Vojto  and Jakub returns to his parents for more idle dreams, a Romani woman, the Town Hall administrator Irena , and a Slovak man, the Town Hall maintenance guy and volunteer firefighter Ondro , a more mature couple from a subsidiary plot, are getting married too.<ref name http://www.pitt.edu/~votruba/sstopics/movieclips/rosydreamswriteup.html | title  2010-06-18 | last  Martin | work  University of Pittsburgh}}Twice widowed, Pilnyeo vows never to marry again and takes a job at a coal mine. One day she is raped by her supervisor, but later marries him. Pilnyeo continues to be abused by her new husband, but later risks her own life for him.Yang Yu Heng  is asked by the government to escort a cargo of gold into a famine area. However, he must contend with the vicious Chi Sah gang who boast the individual talents of leader Golden Arm , plus Silver Spear , Iron Robe , and Brass Head . In order to protect the gold from their attentions, Yang hires the services of swordsman Li Chin Ming  and his girlfriend Miss Leng , the axe-wielding duo known as Short Axe and Long Axe: Yen and Feng , and drunken master Hai To . Yang and his men proceed to deliver the gold as planned after enlisting the help of Short Axe and Long Axe, as well as Li Chin Ming and his girlfriend Miss Leng. Before meeting up with Yang, Miss Ling encounters Iron Robe whilst on her way to meet Li Ching Ming at a winery. Iron Robe assures her that he does not fight women and seemingly lets her pass through the road. However, she is attacked by a group of Chi Sah thugs. Drunken master Hai To appears and easily dispatches Miss Leng's attackers. He quickly departs before Miss Leng can thank him. Miss Leng arrives at the winery and notifies her boyfriend of what had happened. Ming is attacked by the waiter after he pours them a drink but then tries to sneak up behind Ming with a sword. Ming disposes of him calmly while sitting down. As the owner of the winery confronts Ming about killing his employee Ming explains what had happened. The owner appears upset at the manager for hiring such man. As the manager apologizes he discretely hands a spear over to the owner. The owner attacks without warning as Ming is just missed. Ming is caught off guard and stricken with the "sand palm" which poisons him. Ming and Miss Leng narrowly escape with their lives. As the couple leaves, Hai To enters the winery. A Chi Sah thug runs into Hai To and is sent reeling backwards as he spits up blood and dies. Hai To continues to enter despite all the commotion and remain relaxed as if nothing was happening. As he sits at a table he asks the manager for wine. The manager obliges and brings a jar of wine. As Hai To is drinking the manager smashes the jar with his head. Hai To identifies the manager as Brass Head and the owner as Silver Spear and they pull off their disguises. Silver Spear tries to persuade Hai To to join the Chi Sah gang. Hai To said that he would under three terms: he would have to be made chief number 1 of the Chi Sah gang and all the old members of the gang must be killed. Hai To attempts to think of a third term but then takes it back. A fight nearly breaks out due to his incompetence. However, they allow Hai To to leave quietly. Meanwhile, Ming is suffering from the effects of the sand palm. Miss Leng shows concern. Ming states that he will live for at least two more days thanks to his internal control techniques. Miss Leng wishes to go out of their way to bring Ming to a doctor. Ming refuses and presses onward to meet up with Yang without Miss Leng. Yang and the others make preparations to receive the gold they are to deliver. Short Axe and Long Axe find a Chi Sah member sneaking around the grounds and brings him to Yang. The member exclaims that he should just be killed as torture is not right. Short Axe and Long Axe agree and Short Axe slashes the member's throat with one of his axes. Brass Head appears from a secret tunnel in the floor as well as several Chi Sah thugs. Yang, Short Axe, and Long Axe deal with all of them and mortally wound Brass Head. It is now that Golden Arm makes his entrance. With Brass Head's dying words he tells Golden Arm that Iron Robe was able to intercept the cart carrying the gold, however he set up a signal as there was some apparent problem. Golden Arm tells Brass Head that he will check what the problem is. He also says for Brass Head not to worry as all three of these men were going to die. Brass Head thanks his master and collapses in death. The three warriors attempt to attack Golden Arm but to no avail. Their weapons and martial skill was useless against Golden Arm's arms. The three warriors look on in disbelief as Golden Arm exits. Meanwhile, Hai To has pursued Iron Robe and popped off the wheel of the cart of gold. Iron Robe sets up a flare as a signal that he needs help. Iron Robe discovers Hai To and Iron Robe along with several Chi Sah thugs attack Hai To. Hai To kills the thugs and faces Iron Robe one on one. Iron Robe is eventually killed when he leaps over the wagon and Hai To throws a spear at Iron Robe from beneath him. Hai To leaves and Golden Arm arrives to observe the aftermath. Golden Arm suspects it is the work of Hai To and becomes determined to fight him as it would be an honor to fight someone as skilled as Hai To. Golden Arm realizes the cart is broken and leaves the gold as it is as there is no way of transporting it in a broken cart. Ming encounters Silver Spear as he presses onward. They both engage in combat. However, the effects of the sand palm make itself pertinent and Ming is easily overwhelmed by Silver Spear. Hai To appears again to save Ming. Silver Spear attacks Hai To but he dodges and grabs onto the spear. Silver Spear exclaims Hai To is first person to ever grab it. Hai To says Silver Spear is the first one to ever be able to hold onto it. Silver Spear makes a last attempt to convert Hai To. Hai To reminds Silver Spear of his terms and Silver Spear continues to battle. Miss Leng arrives and Hai To warns Silver Spear that he should leave, as he would be outnumbered. Silver Spear takes Hai To's advice and leaves. Hai To picks up Ming's unconscious body and runs off with Miss Leng trailing behind. Hai To takes Ming to a place to be cremated. He states that the ashes with the sand palm poison will fetch a good price. Miss Leng attacks Hai To infuriated but Hai To defends himself with no problem. Ming regains consciousness inside a cremation room. The heat rises as Ming yells in pain. Yang and the others are continuing to go collect the gold. They take a rest in an abandoned spot. Yang notices that his guards are non responsive. It is revealed that they are dead. The Chi Sah gang rigged the logs they were sitting on with poisoned needles. They attempt to leave the area but another one of the guards die as they discover the ground is rigged as well. The cart of gold is discovered however and they use the wood from the cart to cover their feet as the continue to travel. Miss Leng is in a rage and tells Hai To she will hunt him down. Ming escapes the cremation room as Hai To's actual plan was revealed. The intense heat of the cremation room would cause Ming to sweat out the poisons of the sand palm. Ming is cured of his ailment and he leaves with Miss Leng. They eventually meet up with Yang in a town. They stay in a settlement for the night. They soon realize that the Chi Sah gang has booby trapped the settlement with poison. The water around the town was poisoned along with poison gas traps being set up on torches. Hai To suggests they sleep outside. Everyone agrees as they all sleep outside. Hai To and Miss Leng become flirtatious. Two of Yang's men decide it is not safe to oppose the Chi Sah gang and attempt to take the gold and run away. The others investigate when they hear screaming. The two men are dead. Hai To suspects the chest is poisoned and that the men attempted to steal some gold. Yang assures Hai To that there are no traitors among his men. In the morning Hai To is gone and the others continue. Hai To is at another winery drinking. Silver Spear tracks him down. It is here that Hai To confronts Silver Spear of the trap that killed the two of Yang's men back in town. Silver Spear is confused about this and Hai To's suspicions only get deeper. Silver Spear leaves Hai To with an ultimanum: join the Chi Sah gang or duel Golden Arm. Hai To chooses to have a duel with Golden Arm. Silver Spear leaves Hai To in the winery. The remaining men of Yang's escort become very paranoid and ask if they can leave. Yang takes offense to this and becomes angry. Ming has a different point of view and says if they are scared then they really shouldn't be there. Yang lets his men leave. Meanwhile, Short Axe and Long Axe scout the road ahead. They encounter some Chi Sah thugs and Silver Spear. The duo seem to fare well against the thugs. Silver Spear realizes he and his men are losing the fight and understands he must kill one of them quickly. A lone Chi Sah thug enganges Short Axe as Silver Spear throws his throwing darts at Long Axe and greatly wounds him. Silver Spear then proceeds to extend his spear and impale Long Axe which kills him. Short Axe deals with the Chi Sah thugs meanwhile and fights Silver Spear one on one. The battle is close and Silver Spear appears to have the upper hand. A Chi Sah thug sneaks up behind Short Axe and impales him with a spear. Short Axe uses his dual axes to kill the thug. Silver Spear is pleased and casually walks over to Short Axe to finish him off. Short Axe uses the spear enlodged in his body to stab Silver Spear. They both back off and then appear ready to fight again. However, they both fall over due to their wounds and both die. Yang, Miss Leng, and Ming find the bodies and make them a proper grave. Ming storms off impatiently. Miss Leng suspects he will challenge Golden Arm. Ming meets with Golden Arm and engages him in battle. Golden Arm fends off Ming without breaking a sweat. Ming defends himself decently until he loses his sword. He eventually reobtains his sword but not for long and Golden Arm bends the blade around his arm and as Ming moves forward, Golden arm lets go of the blade and it jetisons forward, mortally wounding Ming. Miss Leng arrives and tries to give Ming her sword. However, he dies on the spot. Golden Arm warns Miss Leng that she should leave. He would give her three days. Hai To runs into Miss Leng and notifies her to return to the spot in two hours, for then it would be settled. Hai To and Yang arrive to meet with Golden Arm. Hai To and Golden Arm begin to fight. Golden Arm overwhelms Hai To, even after many uses of weapons and techniques against him including Yang's sword which Golden Arm quickly shatters to pieces. Eventually, Hai To drinks wine out of a canteen in his shirt. Later in the fight he spits it in Golden Arm's eyes which blinds him. Yang insists that Golden Arm be killed as Hai To explains that Golden Arm won't be very dangerous blind. A man who looks exactly like Yang proceeds to jump out of the cart of gold and slash Hai To with his sword. It is revealed that this man is Iron Feet. This leaves the audience thinking of when who they thought of Yang was actually Iron feet. Long ago, Iron Feet was seen as Golden Arm's equal. When Golden Arm formed the Chi Sah Gang, Iron Feet was discredited greatly. Iron Feet and Yang joined forces to steal the gold. Hai To realizes this and explains that Iron Feet would likely kill Yang to get his hands on all of the gold. Yang is shocked and is sent reeling back from one of Iron Feet's kicks and dies. Iron Feet attacks Golden Arm who is blinded by the wine. Golden Arm uses his hearing to know where Iron Feet is. He holds himself very well against Iron Feet until Iron Feet starts to walk softly so that Golden Arm could not hear his footsteps. Hai To steps in for Golden Arm and they both engage in a stalemate duel. Iron Feet unknowingly makes his way over to the blinded Chi Sah leader and falls to Golden Arm who impales him from behind with his arm. Golden Arm explains that he would now live quietly somewhere and retire. Miss Leng appears behind him and impales Golden Arm with Ming's broken sword. Golden Arm pulls the sword out of himself and holds the blade up to Miss Leng's neck and almost kills her. Golden Arm however says that it is better this way anyhow and that he could not see himself being retired. Golden Arm collapses and dies. Hai To leaves Miss Leng to escort the gold as he tells her he is going to go get drunk and walks off.The film begins as Takuma  Tsurugi meets the condemned murderer Tateki  Shikenbaru while disguised as a Buddhist monk. Tsuguri applies his "oxygen coma punch" to Junjo, causing him to collapse just before he can be executed. As Junjo is rushed to a hospital, Tsurugi and his sidekick Rakuda  ambush the ambulance and free him. As Tsurugi and Ratnose watch the incident on the news, Junjo's brother Gijun and sister Nachi arrive and plead for more time to pay for Tsurugi's help. Outraged, Tsurugi refuses and attacks the siblings. Gijun is defenestrated when Tsurugi dodges a flying kick, and Nachi is sold into sexual slavery by Mutaguchi. Mutaguchi and his associates attempt to hire Tsurugi to kidnap Sarai, the daughter of a recently deceased oil tycoon. Tsurugi refuses after discovering that the gangsters are Yakuza. He escapes, but the Yakuza gangsters resolve to kill Tsurugi as well as kidnap Sarai. Tsurugi immediately seeks out Sarai, who is being protected at the Nippon Seibukan dojo by her uncle, Kendō Masaoka, a Karate master. Tsurugi captures Sarai and challenges the entire dojo to a fight. He brutalizes the rank-and-file students before Masaoka bests him. Ultimately, Tsurugi offers to protect Sarai, and Masaoka agrees, against Sarai's protests. Meanwhile, the Yakuza's allies in Hong Kong, led by Kowloon Dinsau, recruit Junjo Shikenbaru to avenge his siblings by killing Tsurugi. The gangsters make several attempts to kill Tsurugi before they successfully kidnap Sarai. Tsurugi manages to rescue her, but gets captured himself. Ratnose gives up Sarai's location to save Tsurugi, causing the honorable Tsurugi to forsake him. When Tsurugi faces a blind swordsman working for the Hong Kong gangsters, Ratnose dies in a reckless attempt at redemption. Tsurugi finally tracks the gangsters down to a shipyard and fights his way through their guards. In the end, Dinsau permits Tsurugi to duel Junjo. Nachi sacrifices herself to give her brother a free shot with a sai, but Tsurugi survives and kills Junjo. Critically wounded, Tsurugi is helped to his feet by Sarai and Dinsau in the final shot of the film.José Miguel García, a thirty-seven years old radio announcer, has achieved professional success with his late-night radio show Solos en la madrugada  which is devoted to criticizing the regime of the dictator Francisco Franco.The program has achieved the highest audience in the country. The space, full of irony, is directed to those men and women born during the Spanish civil war or in the years immediately after, whom he accuses of cowardice and failing in a life burdened by the past. The journalist pessimistic point of views are a reflection of the dissatisfaction he faces in his own life. José Miguel is separated from his wife, Elena, with whom he has two children, whom he rarely sees. During this period of his life comes the opportunity to begin a new life with a girl named Maite, who belongs to a generation of war and the postwar period.Meeta Sen  and Amar Sen  have been married for several years. Due to Amar's hectic work schedule, the couple did not have children, as there was no time for intimacy. Meeta decides to take matters into her own hands, gets rid of the servants, save for Hari , and decides to run the household on her own. This gets the couple to be closer, and eventually they do get intimate. And then Meeta's old flame Shashi Bhushan  not only re-enters Meeta's life, but also gets employed in the same organization as Amar, throwing their marriage again in jeopardy.The protagonist, Gustav von Aschenbach, travels to Venice for health reasons. There, he becomes obsessed with the stunning beauty of an adolescent Polish boy named Tadzio who is staying with his family at the same Grand Hôtel des Bains on the Lido as Aschenbach. While the character Aschenbach in the novella is an author, Visconti changed his profession to that of a composer. "Playing the role" of Aschenbach's music in the film is the music of Gustav Mahler, in particular the moving Adagietto from his Fifth Symphony, which opens and closes the film, and sections from his Third Symphony. Apart from this change, the film is relatively faithful to the book, but with added scenes where Aschenbach and a musician friend debate the degraded aesthetics of his music; again, this has direct parallels in the life and works of Mahler, especially when Aschenbach is played an extract of his own work which, in reality, is Adagietto from the fourth movement from Mahler's Fifth Symphony. While Aschenbach attempts to find peace and quiet, the rest of the city is being gripped by a cholera epidemic, and the city authorities do not inform the holiday-makers of the problem for fear that they will all leave. As Aschenbach and the other guests make day-trips out into the city centre it eventually dawns on them that something is seriously wrong. Aschenbach decides to leave, but in a moment of impulse decides to stay. However, he himself is dying. Rejuvenated by the presence of Tadzio—though they never actually converse—he visits the barbers who, in his words, "returns to you merely what has been lost", dyeing his grey hair black and whitening his face and reddening his lips to try to make him look younger. As he leaves the barber's shop the barber exclaims: "And now Sir is ready to fall in love as soon as he pleases". Aschenbach still continues to gaze at Tadzio from afar, the latter more aware that he is being gazed at. In the climactic scene, Aschenbach sees Tadzio being beaten up on the beach by an older boy. When released, Tadzio walks away from him alone towards the horizon. He suddenly turns back to look at Aschenbach, then turning away to face the sun, and stretches his arm out towards it. Aschenbach too, stretches his hand as if to reach Tadzio, and at that very moment—heightened by the crescendo in Mahler's Adagietto—he dies from the cholera infection. A few people notice him collapsed on his chair and alert the hotel staff . They then carry Aschenbach's body away.Babla  is a kid who lives in a village with his mother . His mother sends him to his sister's  place  so that he can go to a good school. Initially, Babla likes both school as well as sister's home very much and becomes a good friend with Pappu , his classmate. They roam around in streets, watch street magic show and wish they could do such tricks, look inquisitively at how sweets are made, make fun of teacher etc. They enjoy, as any kid will, all these things thoroughly. But Babla gets reminded of the harsh reality of life when his sister and brother-in-law starts scolding him for his disinterest in studies and complaints from the school regarding his so-called irresponsible behavior . He gets to realize that nobody understands kids, their innocence, their view of life and he will have to grow up to enjoy life fully. One thing leads to another and one day Babla decides that he will be better off living with his mother in village. He runs off and get on a train. Since he does not have any ticket, ticket-master catches him and makes him get off on the next station. In the night he feels cold and look around for some shelter. He finds an old woman sleeping in a blanket and lie down besides her sharing the blanket. In the morning, finding the old beggar woman still sleeping, he picks up a coin from her container and goes off to drink water. While drinking water he sees that lot of people have gathered around the old lady. He goes there and finds out that the lady he had been sleeping with was dead. He gets scared to his core and realizes that life is, in fact, not that simple for those who are poor. He puts back the coin he had taken and run off to his mother's place. There he finds his mother, sister and brother-in-law worrying about him. They are overjoyed to see Babla back and Babla promises to everyone that he will study sincerely and never create troubles for anyone.Due to his own extreme ideals, famed swordsman Li has lost everyone dear to him. After his life is saved by a rival swordsman, Li's overwhelming pride means he forsakes the woman he loves and lets her marry his saviour. Now resigned to traveling the country with his loyal aide, Li's only comfort is alcohol and the simple life he has now accepted. On one such journey, the lonely swordsman befriends the exceptionally skilled, yet secretive Fei who has his own pressures to contend with. Li then finds himself embroiled in a battle to own the highly-prized 'gold armour shirt' - a protective vest that can withstand any blow. As he discovers that many of the people he meets have a hidden agenda, Li realizes that Fei is the only man he can truly trust. This new friendship is put under test when the 'sentimental swordsman' is hunted down by numerous hired killers and framed for a series of crimes he didn't commit. The person behind Li's troubles proves to be elusive, though all the clues seem to point to the legendary 'Plum Blossom Bandit', a disguised figure whose identity has long proved elusive to the martial world.Kizaki kidnaps Yuriko and engages in a rape and torture session with her, which he photographs. With the photos, he blackmails aristocratic flower arrangement teacher Yumeji, Yuriko's older sister. Rather than allow him to shame her clan by sending the photos to the media, Yumeji goes to Kizaki. Kizaki then proceeds to rape and torture Yumeji, who was his true desire all along. Yumeji escapes from Kizaki at the end of the film.<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn226 }}Francesco, the spoiled son of Pietro Bernardone, a wealthy textile merchant, returns home from fighting in the war between Assisi and Perugia. Struck by a feverish illness that has forced him to leave the war, Francesco lies on his bed tormented by visions of his past when he was a boisterous, arrogant youth. During a long recovery process, he slowly finds God in the midst of all, in poverty, chastity and obedience, experiencing a recovery not only of his body but of his soul. Healthy again, Francesco returns to his normal life as a rich young man. However, to the consternation of his parents, he begins to spend lots of time surrounded by nature, flowers, trees, animals and poetry as he becomes more and more reluctant to resume his prior life style. Pietro's obsession with gold now fills Francesco with revulsion, creating an open confrontation between Francesco and Pietro. Francesco rebuffs offers to take over the family business and throws the textiles out of the window. Pietro, frustrated, beats Francesco and humiliates him in front of the city's Bishop and population. Francesco renounces all his worldly possessions and his "noble" family name Bernardone and leaves Assisi naked and free from his past to live an ascetic and simple life as a man of God and nature. Francesco goes toward the ruins of the chapel of San Damiano, where he hears God's voice asking him to restore it. Much to the dismay of his family, friends and the local bishop, Francesco gradually gains a following amongst the poor and the suffering. His friend Bernardo happily joins him after returning from a Crusade that left him in sorrow and emptiness. Two other friends, Silvestro and Giocondo, admiring Francesco's new life style as a beggar, help to rebuild the chapel of San Damiano. Clare, a beautiful young woman also from a wealthy family, serves and cares for lepers of the community. She joins the brothers in their life of poverty. Meanwhile in Assisi, the high classes of nobility, including the Bishop, protest against Francesco and his group, worried about them "corrupting" the whole of Assisi's youth and they command Francesco's friend Paolo to hinder and stop the so-called "minor brothers". One day the chapel is set on fire by the establishment, and one of the parishioners is dead. Because of conflicts between the high corrupted levels of the Church and Francesco's group, Francesco decides to walk to the Vatican in Rome to ask Pope Innocent III for advice. Once in Rome, Francesco becomes stunned by the enormous wealth, power, lust and emptiness that surrounds the throne of St. Peter. When brought to face the Pope, Francesco breaks from reciting Paolo's carefully prepared script and calmly protests against such pomp and worldliness, reciting the scriptures  to prove that Christ's words are totally opposite to Rome's wealth. Due to his protest, Francesco and his friends are jailed, and, finally accepting his admiration toward Francesco, Paolo decides to join them, revealing to Francesco how ashamed he is to be dressed in fine and luxurious clothes in front of a humble and kind man dressed as a beggar. Apparently convinced by the sincerity of Paolo's conversion, the Pope orders Francesco and his friends to be brought back. To everyone's astonishment, the Pope kisses Francesco's feet and blesses him and his companions, wishing for them a long world-wide society of men and women willing to serve God in just that way. Some of the final lines from Rome  place the sincerity of the Pope's display in question, if the words speak for the Pope: "Don't be alarmed, his holiness knows what he is doing. This is the man who will speak to the poor, and bring them back to us." The film finishes with the sight of Francesco slowly walking alone into the distance in the countryside.This is the story of an eccentric young man, Ashok  who believes in doing good without worrying about the consequences. This does not find any favor with his sister-in-law Sarla , and she decides to leave him. But he persuades her to come back, and he decides to relocate and not cause any more trouble for Sarla. On his way he has a skirmish with the a princess Rajkumari Seema  who he teaches a lesson to respect the poor and food grown in the fields. When he arrives in the city, due to his misfortune, he lands a job at a factory run by the Rajkumari, and immediately gets in to the bad books of Prem  to whom the Rajkumari is engaged to be married. The Rajkumari also decides to teach him a lesson for the humiliation she suffered at his hands. But things work out differently, and Ashok ends up saving the life of the Rajkumari, and she falls in love with him. This jeopardizes the plans that Rajkumari's uncle  has for her and her bethrothed Prem, and a horrifying scheme is concocted to stop the love and possible future relationship of Rajkumari and Ashok.Tora-san convinces the hesitant Hitomi to go through with her plans to marry her intended spouse.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/18990 |title2010-01-20|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 23: Tora-san the Matchmaker  |date2010-01-20|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305829|title2010-01-20|publisher=British Film Institute}}Whipple "Whip" Hoxworth  returns home to Hawaii to find his grandfather has died and left his fortune to Hoxworth's cousin, Micah Hale . Hoxworth, the black sheep of his otherwise very conservative and disapproving family, starts a plantation, staffing it with newly-arrived Chinese indentured servants Nyuk Tsin  and her man Mun Ki . Mun Ki fathers children with Nyuk Tsin, all the while dreaming of returning to China and his wife. Nyuk Tsin, named "Wu Chow's Auntie" to support the fiction that Mun Ki's spouse is the real mother of the children, has other ideas. Whip steals valuable pineapples from French Guiana in the hope that they will grow in Hawaii. He gives the forlorn plants to Wu Chow's Auntie, knowing that she has a "green thumb". When she succeeds in nurturing the plants into flourishing, the overjoyed Whip offers to buy her some land as a reward. Over Mun Ki's opposition, she accepts. This is the first step in the rise of both Whip and Wu Chow's Auntie, as well as the pineapple industry in Hawaii. Meanwhile, Whip marries native Hawaiian Purity  and has a son with her. However, because of her royal, inbred background, she is mentally fragile. Eventually, her mind gives way, and she can no longer abide to live with Whip. Their son Noel  grows to manhood with an uneasy relationship with his father. When Mun Ki contracts leprosy, Wu Chow's Auntie accompanies him to the leper colony on Molokai. Upon Mun Ki's death years later, she returns to be reunited and reacquainted with her now-grown, educated, and prospering children. A complication arises when Noel falls in love with Wu Chow's Auntie's only daughter. Neither parent approves of the idea of the marriage, but in the end, they grudgingly accept it.Rabbi Avram Belinski  arrives in Philadelphia from Poland en route to San Francisco where he will be a congregation's new rabbi. He has with him a Torah scroll for the San Francisco synagogue. Avram, an innocent, trusting and inexperienced traveler, falls in with three con men, the brothers Matt and Darryl Diggs and their partner Mr. Jones, who trick him into helping pay for a wagon and supplies to go west, then brutally rob him and leave him and most of his belongings scattered along a deserted road in Pennsylvania. Still determined to make it to San Francisco, Avram spends a little time with some Pennsylvania Dutch . Injured when he was dumped out of the speeding wagon, the Amish nurse Avram back to health and give him money for the train west to the end of the line. When he reaches the end of the line in Ohio, the rabbi manages to find work on the railroad. On his way west again after saving up enough money to buy a horse and some supplies, he is befriended and looked after by a stranger named Tommy Lillard , a bank robber with a soft heart who is moved by Avram's helplessness and frank personality, despite the trouble it occasionally gives him. For instance, when Tommy robs a bank on a Friday, he finds that Avram  will not ride on the Sabbath—even with a hanging posse on his tail. With some luck, however, they still manage to get away, mainly because with the horses rested from having been walked for a full day, they are fresh and able to ride all night, outdistancing their pursuers. On another occasion, due to Avram's insistence on riding into foul weather, he and Tommy have to use an old Indian trick and snuggle up next to their horses, which they have gotten to lie on the ground, to wait out a snowstorm. While traveling together, the two also experience American Indian customs and hospitality, disrupt a Trappist monastery's vow of silence with an innocent gesture of gratitude, and learn a little about each other's culture. While stopping in a small town not too far of San Francisco, Avram encounters the Diggs brothers and Jones again. He gets into a fight with the three of them, and after taking a beating is rescued by Tommy, who takes back what they had stolen from Avram and a bit more besides. Seeking revenge, the three bandits follow the pair and ambush them on a California beach where Tommy and Avram have stopped to bathe. Avram experiences a crisis of faith when he is forced to shoot Darryl Diggs in self-defense. Tommy brings him back by eloquent argument with simple language, reminding him that he still is what he is inside, despite what he had to do on the beach. When Matt Diggs, sole survivor of the ambushing trio, prepares to avenge his brother by killing Avram and Tommy springs to his friend's defense, Avram regains his composure and shows his wisdom and courage in front of the entire community. He exiles Diggs from San Francisco . The story ends happily with Avram marrying Rosalie Bender, younger daughter of the head of San Francisco's Jewish community, with Tommy attending the ceremony as his best man.Pilot Ashok  is in love with Sivakami . They have an affair and Sivakami becomes pregnant. Ashok dies in a plane crash. Sivakami tells her father about her pregnancy. But soon he dies too. Sivakami is now on her own with her new born child whom she gives to a rich family to look after. She works there as a servant and she tells the rich person about her past. She emphasises that this must not be told to his wife who is fond of the child. He promises her that he wouldn't. Meanwhile, the wife's brother Ashokan sees Sivakami and wants to marry her. When she rejects his proposal, he tries to rape her. Her son kills him with a knife. The child runs away leaving Sivakami with the knife. Sivakami goes to prison as she confesses to the murder. She is released twenty years later. Meanwhile, the rich man's wife finds out about Sivakami's history from her husband. She is shocked and wants her to be immediately released from prison. Sivakami returns to their home. A girl living there Latha sees Sivakami. They get along well. She takes Sivakami to the airport to meet her fiancé who turns out to be Sivakami's son Sivaji Ganesan. However he doesn't recognise her as he was much younger when he saw her last time. One day he finds a diary and sees pictures of his father, his mother and himself with his mother. Then he remembers Sivakami and asks her to come to his awards ceremony. During the ceremony, he asks his mother to present him the award to which she obliges. The film ends with both Sivaji Ganesan and Vanisri on the stage.Hoping to repay his family for the trouble he has caused them in the past, Torasan gambles and wins at the horse races. He plans to give his uncle and aunt a vacation in Hawaii, but the travel agent turns out to be a con-artist, and makes off with his money. Torasan falls in love with Haruko, a young kindergarten teacher who is renting a room in his uncle's home.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/19220|title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}{{cite web}}Over a black screen, Sada Abe  tells some of the aliases she had used in her past. The opening concludes when the words "Kichi Sada 2" appear on the screen, followed by a newspaper headline, "Document: Sada Abe," which is the Japanese title of the film. The lovers, Sada and Kichi  are then shown together, with Kichi predicting that he will die if their love-making continues. Soldiers pass the couple as they enter an inn, placing the story in the context of Japan's military build-up. They engage in a love-making session which lasts between April 23 and May 7, 1936. Some of their S&M games involve knives, biting and mutual strangulation. When Kichi leaves Sada for a shave, she jealously accuses him of "committing adultery" on her with his wife. Soldiers are seen marching past a crowd which is listening to a report of the "February 26 Incident" on the radio. Sada and Kichi, uninterested, leave the crowd to continue their love-making. After strangling each other with their obis , Kichi's neck is red, and Sada sends for a doctor. Kichi is told to go on a liquid diet, and he plans to return home for two months to recover. Sada is upset at losing Kichi, and spills all of his medicine. During another love-making session, Kichi invites Sada to strangle him again, telling her not to stop half-way this time, since it would be too painful afterwards. After killing him, Sada rubs her breasts against Kichi's face, attempts to feed him beer, and then castrates him. She then cuts herself and writes "Kichi Sada 2" with her blood on his body. During the progress of this scene, Sada's past life is told in flashbacks. She is banished from her wealthy family after losing her virginity to rape. She wanders around Japan working as a prostitute and bar-maid, eventually finding employment at the current inn where she met Kichi. The final sequence has her crime discovered and becoming a national sensation. Sada, while discussing the story with a masseur who is unaware of her identity, says that Sada must have loved Kichi very much since she wanted the whole country to know about them. The film ends with Sada's arrest.Synopsis based on {{cite book}} and Weisser, p.356.Tora-san discovers that his family is arranging a marriage for him. He leaves to the countryside where he falls in love with the manager of an inn. Unaware that she is involved with another man, Tora-san confesses his love on a New Year's television program.<ref name Jamie S. |lasthttp://www.dvdtalk.com/reviews/40750/tora-san-collectors-set-1/|title2009-12-21|accessdateDVD Talk}}<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/19192|title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}{{cite web}}Arvind Desai  is the only son of a rich businessman  who deals in luxury handicrafts and products. His feelings for his father are mixed. While he hates his dominating nature, he admires his power and lack of scruples. He has long discussions on art and politics with a Marxist friend , is seeing his father's secretary, Alice  and sometimes he visits a prostitute, Fatima. Much against his wishes, his marriage is arranged to a girl from a high-class family that has just returned from Paris much to Alice's mother dismay who realizes that Alice was time-pass for Arvind and nothing more.The fourth installment in François Truffaut’s chronicle of the ardent, anachronistic Antoine Doinel, Bed and Board plunges his hapless creation once again into crisis. Expecting his first child and still struggling to find steady employment, Doinel  involves himself in a relationship with a beautiful Japanese woman that threatens to destroy his marriage. Lightly comic, with a touch of the burlesque, Bed and Board is a bittersweet look at the travails of young married life and the fine line between adolescence and adulthood.The ennui afflicted heir to a deposed European throne returns to his father’s house in West London to find that the neighborhood has become a slum. An ornithologist ill at ease with others, he finds his spy-glass wandering from birds to observe his neighbors. Strictly an observer at first, he increasingly becomes agitated as their lives are blighted by violence, poverty, and injustice. In particular he is moved by the plight of the pubescent Salambo Mardi and her family, beset by the rapist shop-keep Kowalski and the pimp Roscoe. Gradually he is stirred from his emotional detachment to try to assist her, a development that confuses, alarms, and angers his parasitic entourage; Margaret, his social climbing fiancé, Max, the shady family lawyer , David, his quack doctor, and Lazlo, the household manager and apparent leader of a secret society aiming to restore the dynasty.  A pacifist and liberal idealist with no interest in reigning, Leo is relieved when Lazlo confesses that the society is a fraud but furious when he discovers that he is the owner of the slum and his life of wealth and privilege has been paid for from its rents. The movie turns Marxist parable as Leo becomes the unlikeliest of revolutionaries, rallying the denizens of the slum with the aid of Salumbo and her charismatic working-class hero boyfriend Roscoe.  The intellectual and professional class  is quickly overcome, but the capitalists and petit bourgeoisie  prove tougher, fortifying themselves in Leo’s mansion. In the final cataclysm, Leo leads the mob in burning his own mansion to the ground, its occupiers surrendering and fleeing at the last moment. In the last line of dialogue, Roscoe  tells Leo: “Well, you didn’t change the world, did you?” Leo replies: “No, but we changed our street.” The victors laugh together and disperse. Leo wanders up to his old home and picks from the rubble one of his spy-glasses. Smiling happily he chucks it aside and skips merrily away.A melodrama about a man who chooses the career of a police officer in spite of his girlfriend's objection and social stigma. After he is injured in the line of duty, he and his girlfriend get married.Synopsis based on {{cite web}}Hoping to find rest from his wandering life, Tora-san returns home. He becomes infatuated with a widow and leaves to travel again, keeping his feelings secret.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/19620|title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}{{cite web}}Main Tulsi Tere Aangan Ki is about an aristocrat, Thakur Rajnath Singh Chouhan ([[Vijay Anand , who is in love with his mistress Tulsi  but forced to marry a strong aristocratic woman named Sanjukta . Tulsi sacrifices her life, some time after giving birth to Rajnath's son Ajay, because she wants Sanjukta to have her husband all to herself. Rajnath and Sanjukta send Ajay to boarding school to prevent him from bearing the stigma of being an illegitimate child. Sanjukta and Rajnath have a son, Pratap. Rajnath dies in a horse-riding accident. Sanjukta makes regular visits to the boarding school to see Ajay and, when he grows up, she brings him home. Ajay is now played by Vinod Khanna. Sanjukta makes Ajay into not only a very important man but also shields him every time and finally confesses before the public that Ajay is her husband's first son and therefore, is entitled to respect. However, her own son Pratap  feels slighted and becomes wayward. Some people around them also try to further damage the relations between the two brothers. However, for every sin of the younger brother, Ajay protects him and takes the blame. Sanjukta, not knowing the actual situation, gets disturbed. At one stage, she blames Ajay for every wrong thing which actually has been done by her own son. Ajay leaves the house. But soon thereafter, the situation changes and the men standing in support of Pratap feel deceived as he lets them down. In the climax, these men try to kill Pratap, but Ajay, who comes to know of this plan, rescues his brother. Then, Pratap realizes his stepbrother's kindness. He surrenders to Ajay and accepts him as the elder brother. The family reunites.Tora-san returns to his family's shop in Shibamata, Tokyo to find himself accused of being the father of a 17-year-old girl. It turns out that Tora-san had only given help to the girl's mother after her husband had left her. Tora-san becomes infatuated with the female archeology student who is staying with his family, and attempts to take up intellectual pursuits to get near her.{{cite web}}Famous real-life stripper Sayuri Ichijō appears as herself in this fictional account of her daily life. The story involves Ichijō's relationships with two men: Her boyfriend, and the strip-club owner. Ichijō considers her work in striptease to be an art-form and pushes the boundaries of legality. Harumi, a younger stripper determined to outdo Ichijō, contributes to the ever-increasing extremity of the strip acts, which result in continuous problems with the police, and numerous arrests.{{cite web}}{{cite web}}Dharamchand is the Chair of Olympic Bank, which is due for a final audit by the 30th of the month. Shortly thereafter, his daughter, Hema, finds his dead body in his bedroom. She phones her brother, Ratan, who arrives, finds a suicide note in his dad's room, clarifying that he had embezzled 20 lakhs from the bank, is unable to repay it, and hence is killing himself. Ratan decides to protect the good name of the family and does not tell anyone about the suicide note to anyone, including Hema. Shortly thereafter, Ratan is approached by a blackmailer named Shekhar, who threatens to expose Ratan's secret if Ratan does not participate in a bank robbery that will take place two days before the final audit. Ratan assists him, the robbery takes place, the money is looted, all bank records are burnt, and the robbers make a successful getaway. Ratan is relieved that his problem has been resolved and the family name is not tarnished. The only problem is that Hema saw the robbers in action, and is able to identify one of them, a woman named Shobha. When she tells Ratan, he asks her to keep this information a secret. Then Ratan's friend, Sagar, arrives from Delhi for a visit, and it is here that Ratan will find out that Sagar is in a profession that has made him a suspect with the police, and may rip open the secret that Ratan has been trying to hide from the worldKrabat, a beggar boy in early 18th century Lusatia, is lured to become an apprentice to an evil, one-eyed sorcerer. Together with a number of other boys, he works at the sorcerer's mill under slave-like conditions while learning black magic, such as guising himself as a raven and other animals. Every Christmas one of the boys has to face the master in a magical duel of life and death, where the boy never stands a chance because the master is the only person who is allowed to use his secret grimoire: The Koraktor, or the Force of Hell. One Easter while performing an annual ritual near a small village, Krabat meets a girl and falls in love, but has to keep the romance secret in order to protect her. After witnessing his friends one after one being helplessly slaughtered by the master every Christmas, Krabat starts to sneak up at night to study the forbidden book. On the last page of the book, Krabat finds a phrase saying: "Love is stronger than any spell." This is used when he ultimately has to defeat his master for the sake of love.An arrogant wealthy capitalist named Raffaella  is vacationing on a yacht in the Mediterranean Sea with friends—swimming, sunbathing, and talking incessantly about the virtues of her class and the worthlessness of the political left. Her nonstop political monologue infuriates one of the underclass deckhands on her yacht, Gennarino , a dedicated Communist who manages to restrain his opinions to avoid upsetting his boss and losing his good job. Despite her humiliating insults, Gennarino agrees to take her out on a dinghy late in the evening to see the rest of her friends who have gone ahead without her. On their way, the outboard motor gives out, leaving them stranded in the middle of the sea with no land in sight. After a night at sea, Gennarino manages to get the motor running again but has no idea where they are or how to get to land. Eventually they spot an island and head toward it, destroying their dinghy in the process. On land, they discover that there is no one on the island except them, and they are effectively shipwrecked. Accustomed to having everything done for her, Raffaella begins ordering Gennarino about, but this is the final straw for him and he snaps, refusing to assist her any longer. Raffaella reacts with a string of insults, but he gives as good as he gets, and they split up to explore the island on their own. Much better suited to island life than Raffaella, Gennarino is soon catching lobsters and cooking them. Gradually their roles become reversed. While she has to rely on him for food, Gennarino wants her to be his slave, convinced that women are born to serve men. He even forces her to endure the indignity of washing his underwear. When she reacts in angry defiance, he slaps her around. Undeniably attracted to Raffaella, Gennarino attempts to rape her, but then changes his mind, deciding that it would be more satisfying if she gave herself to him willingly. He wants her to fall in love with him, and as their differences are gradually forgotten, they reach a kind of balance, although Gennarino still hits her and she takes the more subservient role. Eventually they spot a ship, and although they are both reluctant to disrupt their newfound paradise, they signal the ship and are rescued. After returning home, they soon revert back to their former lives and social roles—she once again embracing the upper class mores of her friends; he returning to a life of a lower-class worker and husband. They both understand something profound and unsettling about what they've experienced, but Raffaella is unwilling to abandon the society of privilege that has such a strong hold on her. Abandoned by the object of his desires, Gennarino returns defeated to his sad life and loveless marriage—far removed from an idyllic island in the Mediterranean Sea.Kavitha  is a working woman in a middle class family. She works hard to support her widowed sister, unmarried sister, her blind younger brother, her mother, her drunkard brother Murthy  and his family. Her father abandons the family and becomes a saint. Her brother not only does not take responsibilities, but also creates additional problems for her. She has a longtime boyfriend,Tilak  who wants to marry her, but she doesn't because of her commitment to her family. His eyes now wander to Kavitha's widowed younger sister  who reciprocates his feelings. Kavitha, after reading her boyfriend's love letter to her sister, arranges for them to get married, thus giving up her chance of having a life with him. Meanwhile Prasad  loves Sripriya Kavitha's sister but when he comes to know that she loves Tilak  he sacrifies his love for her and he marries Kavitha's distressed friend Phataphat Jayalakshmi. Kavitha eventually accepts a marriage proposal of her boss , when she realizes that her brother has become responsible enough to take care of her family. She decides to resign from hard work, but could not as the result of turning point in a typical Balachandar style climax.Jaishankar who plays the part of college professor was being accused by three girls, Srividya, Vijayalalitha and Jayakumari out of which two are his students and a third who is his landlord's daughter, for different reasons but with the same note that he has sexually harassed them, just before his marriage. His fiancee played by Lakshmi sets out to investigate along with some of his dutiful students. What went wrong, a rare intelligent black and white suspense movie, holding as tight right to the end with great cinematography and enthralling dialogues. This is definitely one of K.Balachander's master pieces.http://www.jointscene.com/movies/Kollywood/Nootrukku_Nooru_-_1971/5874In a small town, José Maria, a teenager had a big problem he feels that inside of him he is really a woman. His family environment makes things more difficult for him. His rude father is a male chauvinist who afraid of his son softness put him to work chopping wood and tries to force him to have sex with a prostitute. However, José Maria flees from that adventure feeling guilty. He escapes to the city where he tries to be accepted as woman with tragic results. While working as a hair dresser he meets, Bibi, a transvestite who works in a cabaret and José Maria goes to work with her. He is not José Maria anymore, but Maria José. In the cabaret, he falls in love with Durán, the owner of the bar. Durán, reluctant at the beginning, nevertheless starts a relationship with Maria José, who wants to go all the way, and plans to travel to London to have a sex change operation.The Chinese Navy led by its captain  is attempting to defend its coastline from a Japanese attack, they send their commando unit led by Szu Shih into the mainland to enlist help to thwart the Japanese before they attack. Japanese officers have been hanging out in a place owned by David Chiang and his hot-headed body guard Fu Sheng but they are secretly opposed to the Japanese. The commandos enlist the help of Chiang and Sheng to kill the Japanese officers led by Shan Mao and destroy their attacking ships.Wealthy, powerful and influential Seth Dharamdas  leads a financially secure life in a palatial bungalow. He is known to come help people who are beyond any hope of assistance, and this leads to him being known as "Dharmatma". But Seth Dharamdas does have a number of skeletons in his closet and a parallel life as a gangster and a matka king. The only person whom he dislikes and fears is his own son Ranbir . After a heated argument over Dharmatma's matka business, Ranbir leaves home for Afghanistan, where he stays with a friend of his father and manages his business. One day in a forest while riding a horse, he finds a nomadic man named Jankura  and a woman named Reshma  fighting. He defends beautiful Reshma and falls for her. Reshma too falls for him. Meanwhile in India, his sister Mona  is all set to marry Kundan, son of their father's old friend. She writes to Ranbir to attend her wedding and give them his blessings. Ranbir accepts her invitation and arrives at the venue. The marriage commences and Mona departs after the ceremony. While in the car, she gifts her husband a steel ring with "I Love You" inscribed on it. Ranbir leaves for Afghanistan. He proposes to Reshma, which she accepts. Her foster-father also reluctantly agrees to their marriage. A fortune-teller there predicts that Reshma will bring death to Ranbir which has Reshma worried. Meanwhile in India, a business-rival by the name of 'Anokhelal' proposes a narcotics deal to Dharmatma, which he refuses. His son-in-law tries to force him to accept the scheme but is unsuccessful. Dharmatma recognises the nature of his son-in-law and apologises for his mistake of letting her daughter marry him. He misses Ranbir and orders his assistant Vikram Singh  to bring Ranbir back from Afghanistan. Vikram Singh agrees but on the way he is kidnapped by Anokhelal's sons Natwar and Rishi, and his brother Biradar. In Afghanistan, Ranbir and Reshma prepare for their marriage. On the day of the wedding, they leave for the temple. While in the temple, Natwar and Rishi plant a bomb in their jeep which will explode once the car is started. After praying, Reshma starts the jeep and it explodes, killing Reshma leaving Ranbir heart-broken. Natwar and Rishi attack a matka centre of Dharmatma, injuring him and Kundan. They order a nurse to help Kundan in killing Dharmatma. In Afghanistan, Ranbir gets the news of attack on his father and returns to India. Kundan kills Dharmatma assisted by the nurse but loses his ring given to him by his wife. Ranbir arrives and finds that his father is dead. He promises to his father that he will find out his murderer and punish him. Some days later, Ranbir with Sonia, a childhood friend who secretly loves him, goes out for a drive where he is attacked by goons sent by Anokhelal. The doctor who operated on his father gives him the ring which he found in Dharmatma's hand and tells him that his father died from suffocation. Ranbir suspects an hospital employee to be a part of the conspiracy and asks the doctor about the nurse on duty that night. He visits her house only to find her killed by Natwar and Rishi. He tries the ring on her hand but it doesn't fit. Kundan arrives and lies to him that Vikram Singh and asks Ranbir to kill Vikram Singh. Meanwhile, at Anokhelal's place, they raise a toast for dead Dharmatma. Ranbir arrives there. Kundan, Natwar and Rishi hide upstairs and position a sniper to kill Ranbir. Downstairs, Ranbir accepts the drug deal which his father declined and provides them with {{INR}} 50 lakhs but on a condition that they will give him Vikram Singh, dead or alive, to which Anokhelal agrees. Anokhelal signals Natwar to stop Kundan from firing at Ranbir, which makes Kundan very angry. He returns home, drunk with a prostitute which makes Mona furious. Drunk Kundan gets angry and beats Mona. Ranbir comes to know about this and gets furious. He arrives at their place and beats Kundan but Mona stops him pleading him not to make her a widow. Kidnapped Vikram Singh is killed by Anokhelal. Then they take his dead body in a coffin and meet Ranbir in a church burying ground. Ranbir tries the ring on Vikram Singh but it doesn't fit. Then Anokhelal laughs at him and confessing that he got his father killed. His hidden goons try to kill Ranbir but cops present already saved him, killing Anokhelal and his brother Biradar but Ranbir is injured during that. He thanks cops for saving his life and departs. At his place, while bandaging his wounds, Sonia asks him to leave this place and travel to a safer place to which he disagrees. After which Mona arrives, tying rakhi to Ranbir's wrist. She sees the steel ring in Ranbir's hands and saying that she given one to Kundan but he has lost it. Ranbir realises that Kundan is the main culprit in the death of his father. He wants to kill him but is in a fix because he does not to make his sister a widow. Mona and Kundan return home where they find Natwar and Rishi already present. Kundan signals Mona to go upstairs. Natwar and Rishi blackmail Kundan that they will expose that he was the main culprit behind his father-in-law's death. They demand him to find a path for Ranbir's death. Mona hears this conversation and informs about this to Ranbir. Kundan sees her doing all this. Ranbir and Shakti Singh , a top henchman of his father, arrive at their place and find Mona dead. A mourning Ranbir receives a call from Kundan asking Ranbir to meet him at his hideout in Madh Island. Meanwhile he plans to kill him and Shakti Singh. Ranbir accepts and arrives there only to find a bunch of goons with machine guns there to kill him and Shakti Singh. Kundan lands in helicopter a hilly place with a small cottage where Natwar and Rishi are present. They ask him about their safehouse to which he says that a ship in the sea waiting for their arrival and then he asks them about the narcotics. They reply that it is in cottage. He asks its worth to which they reply that it is full 50 lacs. Then he kills them and takes the carton of drugs from cottage back to the helicopter where he finds Ranbir. He is astonished to see him alive and confesses him about the plan according to which he killed his father. Then he commits suicide by jumping of from the hill. After that, Ranbir closes all Matka rackets across the world which was led by his father and hands over all the black money earned by his father to the police. He leaves with his mother and Sonia, now his wife, to Afghanistan to continue his old work there.Guido Falcone , an easygoing Italian mechanic, is heir to a billion-dollar inheritance after his uncle dies in a freak accident. In order to claim his inheritance, he must reach San Francisco within twenty days to sign a document. His uncle's greedy assistant John Cutler  wants the money for himself, and hires a female detective  to prevent him from reaching his goal.http://www.terencehill.de/de_mov_billion.phpEmilio di Roccanera, The Black Corsair, seeks revenge against Governor Van Guld for the murder of his family.Based on Admiral Yi Sun-sin's war diary, Nanjung Ilgi, the film portrays Yi's life during the Imjin War.Synopsis based on {{cite web}}The film centres on the life of a strong-willed Armenian fighter Nahapet . In the horrors of the Armenian genocide, Nahapet  and others valiantly attempt to defend their village in Turkish Armenia from Ottoman troops but are soon overwhelmed. All his children and his wife, Manushak, are brutally beaten and killed whilst he is tied to a beam and forced to witness the destruction of his village. Left for dead, Nahapet is able to make his way to a bleak and cold village in Aragats , a part of the new state of Soviet Armenia. He is filled with grief and feels unable to move on. With encouragement from his brother-in-law and friend Apro , Nahapet reluctantly begins a new relationship with a woman named Noubar . But the pair are estranged from one another from the start and the scenes from the film show candid but silent moments of the two attempting to find ways to build a new lives and trying to survive with what little they have. They plant trees and labour intensively to build a house despite the harsh weather conditions of the region. Nahapet and Noubar gradually realise that their survival and future is linked and both now come to the aid of one another. She reveals to Nahapet that she is pregnant. As Nahapet is working outside one day he, he hears the wailing of a newborn and rushes to his home's wooden door, collapsing on it with the tears and with the full realisation that building a new future after suffering such deprivations in life is possible. The film ends with him and the other villagers walking with their children as they all take a pledge to plant a new apple tree for each child born in the village.Shamsher Singh  is part of the Indian army lead by Subhas Chandra Bose to fight British out of India. With British on his back to catch him in Hong Kong, he is rescued and helped by Suzy (played by [[Helen . Falling in love with him, Suzy becomes pregnant with Shamsher's baby. But she lets Shamsher go back to India as he is on a greater mission asking him to return back to take her and their baby along with him to India. Back in India Shamsher is already married to Ladjo . The two of them have a son named Raj. Shamsheer's friend Shankar  betrays them all with help of Mac  and kills Shamsheer. But Mac also betrays Shankar and hids the looted gold somewhere without telling it to Shankar. Years later Shamsher's son Raj Singh  joins police force and becomes Inspector. He is now interested in finding the murderers of his father. Mac who finishes his jail time is released and is hunted by Shankar for the looted gold. Shankar has now changed his name into Devi Dayal. Mac reveals to Devi Dayal that the gold is buried in a car that at bottom of a deep lake. To fetch the gold they hire an excellent diver Suraj . Suraj is the illegitimate son of Shamsheer and Suzy and is angry about how her mother Suzy was betrayed by Shamsher and how he never returned back to get them. On his quest to solve a murder case, Raj goes to Darjeeling where he meets Roma  and fall in love with her. Suraj is also in Darjeeling on his new job called in by Devi Dayal. Raj too falls in love with Roma but is very hesitant to communicate. Roma's tells Raj of how her mother had been hooked to drugs by Devi Dayal. Series of incidents reveal all the secrets and Raj and Suraj unite to take revenge of their father's death.Roy is a handsome black Surinam man who studies in the Netherlands. He is recalled by telegram to Suriname because his mother is dying. His Dutch girlfriend Karina  lends him money for a plane ticket. Back in his homeland, Roy soon becomes obsessed with his own country and its culture. When he falls for the Hindu nurse Rubia, the conservative Hindu and Black communities are in revolt. Roy will not return to the Netherlands to finish his studies, even if Karina comes to pick him up. His duty is in Suriname, he says.Born the same day at the start of the 20th century, 27 January 1901, Alfredo Berlinghieri and Olmo Dalcò come from opposite ends of the social spectrum. Alfredo is from a family of landowners led by his abusive but populist grandfather, while Olmo is an illegitimate peasant son off the estate whose grandfather, Leo, is the foreman and peasants strong man who verbally and spiritually carries a duel of wits but without reaching violence ever with Alfredo's. As Alfredo is somewhat rebellious and despises the falseness of his family, in particular his weak but cynical father, he befriends Olmo, who was raised as a socialist. The two are friends throughout their childhood, despite the social differences of their families. Olmo enlists with the Italian army in 1917 during World War I and goes off to fight while Alfredo learns how to run his family's large plantation under the guidance of his father. Olmo returns from the war over a year later and his friendship with Alfredo continues. However, Alfredo's father has hired Attila Mellanchini as his foreman. A sadistic man who becomes taken with fascism, Attila eventually incorporates his new belief system in his dealings with the Berlinghieri workers; he treats them cruelly and later cages them in the Berlinghieri compound and accuses them of treason against fascist Italy. Several are killed by Attila himself. As the new padrone  of the plantation, Alfredo does little to challenge or halt Attila's actions. During the late 1920s, the intimacy and lack thereof in their respective relationships with others is highlighted in their love lives. Alfredo marries a gorgeous, demure woman while Olmo marries Anita, who like him shares in the enthusiasm of the cause of workers' rights. Alfredo’s wife, Ada, sinks into alcoholism when confronted with the reality of the emptiness of her relationship with Alfredo. Anita, a strong and independent spirit dies tragically in childbirth, bringing another member into the community. As Olmo takes on his fateful role of leader among the poor farmers and their families, he clashes with Attila. The power, however, shifts after World War II in 1945, and the ruling class is at the mercy of the jovial and bitter peasants in the agricultural estate. As padrone, Alfredo is captured by a teenage peasant boy carrying a rifle. Attila is also captured when he and his wife, the equally cruel and sadistic Regina, try to flee the region. Attila is stabbed, non-fatally, several times by women wielding pitchforks and is imprisoned in the Berlinghieri pig sty. He is later executed by the peasants , who have discovered that Attila had raped and killed a young boy  several years prior in a fit of rage and had also murdered a wealthy landowner's widow, Mrs. Pioppi , in order to steal her land and home, also [years earlier] Attila had several peasants massacred after they threw horse manure at Atilla for "selling" Olmo. Olmo made Atilla eat manure and let him go. Olmo then had to leave town to keep from being killed by the fascists. Alfredo fires Attila, when Attila and his blackshirts seek vengeance on Olmo by tearing up Olmo's house. Alfredo is brought before Olmo's workers tribunal to stand trial. Many workers come forth and accuse Alfredo of letting them suffer in squalor while he  profited from their labors. Alfredo is sentenced to death, but his execution is prevented after Olmo explains that the padrone is dead, so Afredo Berlinghieri is alive. Suggesting that the social system has been overthrown with the end of the war. As soon as the verdict is reached, however, representatives of the new government, which includes the Communist Party, arrive and call on the peasants to turn in their arms. Olmo convinces the peasants to do so, overcoming their skepticism. Alfredo declares, "The padrone lives." Historically, apparently, in Sicily, -- the socialists  came close to achieving political dominance through elections by the sheer force of their numbers; however these efforts were subverted by the usual techniques of murder, intimidation, economic extortion, and bribery -- by "mafioso" . Mafioso who had been captured and imprisoned by the socialist for their crimes against the peasants, were released and given high level government positions -- by the American occupation force, who were told that these imprisoned criminals were patriots serving democracy. "socialists" were branded as evil communists. Sicily was thus returned to its former system of dominance by elite landowners .The lead character Soyza , is currently a modest farmer who grows potatoes together with his housemates  and Costa . The villain or the other housemate, Wadigapatuna  is a Mudalali businessman who owns a shop in the village. Unlike Soyza, Don and Costa, Wadigapatuna is a selfish and a bad person. Soyza and Wadigapatuna fall in love with the eldest daughter of the owner of their rental home and fight against each other to win the heart of the girl Kanthi. The parents of the daughter in question, Kanthi prefer Wandigapatuna and the plot revolves around the many tricks Soyza and his colleuges play to win the heart of Kanthi. This involves dressing up don Sirisena as a pregnant women to accuse Wandigapatuna of producing a child out of wadlock with her. Movie culminates with a fight between Wandigapatuna and a nearby "strongman" who joins Soyza and the clique.When Tora-san takes a job at a dairy farm, he becomes infatuated with Lily, a singer. Tora becomes ill, and Lily plans to visit him to tell him his feelings are requited. She is fired from her job and must leave before she can visit Tora-san.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/19958 |title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}{{cite web}}On the day of his only daughter's wedding, Vito Corleone  hears requests in his role as the Godfather, the Don of a New York crime family. Vito's youngest son Michael , in Marine Corps khakis, introduces his girlfriend, Kay Adams , to his family at the sprawling reception. Vito's godson Johnny Fontane , a popular singer, pleads for help in securing a coveted movie role, so Vito dispatches his consigliere Tom Hagen  to the abrasive studio head, Jack Woltz , to secure the casting. Woltz is unmoved until the morning he wakes up in bed with the severed head of his prized stallion. Shortly before Christmas 1945, drug baron Virgil "The Turk" Sollozzo , backed by the Corleones' rivals, the Tattaglias, asks Vito for investment and protection through his political connections, but Vito disapproves of drug dealers. Instead, he sends his enforcer, Luca Brasi  to spy on them, but two fish are sent to the family wrapped in Brasi's vest, confirming he "sleeps with the fishes". An assassination attempt by Sollozzo's men lands Vito in the hospital, so eldest son, Sonny , takes command. Sollozzo kidnaps Hagen to pressure Sonny to accept his deal. Michael thwarts a second assassination attempt on his father at the hospital, but is accosted by corrupt police captain McCluskey , who breaks his jaw. Sonny retaliates by having Tattaglia's son killed. Michael comes up with a plan to hit Sollozzo and McCluskey that his brother approves over Hagen's objections: on the pretext of settling the dispute, Michael lures the pair to a restaurant, retrieves a planted handgun and murders them. Despite a clampdown from the authorities, the Five Families erupt in open warfare and the brothers fear for their safety. Michael takes refuge in Sicily, and Fredo  is sheltered by associate Moe Greene  in Las Vegas. Sonny attacks his brother-in-law Carlo on the street for abusing his sister Connie . When it happens again, Sonny speeds for her home but assassins ambush him at a highway toll booth and riddle him with machine gun fire. Vito is saddened to learn that, despite his hopes, Michael has become involved in the family business. However, Michael has fallen in love with Apollonia Vitelli  and married her in Sicily. His peace is shattered when a car bomb intended for him takes the life of his new wife. To end the feuds, Vito meets with the heads of the Five Families, withdrawing his opposition to the Tattaglias' heroin business and swearing to forego revenge for Sonny's murder. He deduces that the Tattaglias were under orders of the now dominant Don Emilio Barzini . With his safety guaranteed, Michael returns home and over a year later marries Kay. Seeing his father at the end of his career and his surviving brother too weak, Michael takes the reins of the family and promises his wife to make it legitimate within five years. Biding his time, Michael allows rival families to pressure Corleone enterprises and plans to move family operations to Nevada, while delegating New York operations to members who stay behind. Michael also replaces Hagen with his father as his consigliere; Vito explains to an upset Hagen that they have long range plans for him in the family. When Michael travels to Las Vegas to buy out Greene's stake in the family's casinos, Greene derides the Corleones as a fading power. Michael's anger is fueled when Fredo falls under Greene's sway. Vito collapses and dies in his garden in 1955 while playing with Michael’s son Anthony. At the funeral, Salvatore Tessio  arranges a meeting between Michael and Don Barzini, signalling his treachery as Vito had warned. The meeting is set for the same day as the christening of Connie and Carlo's son, to whom Michael will stand as godfather. As the christening proceeds, Corleone assassins, acting on Michael's orders, murder the other New York dons and Moe Greene. Tessio is told that Michael is aware of his betrayal and taken off to his death. After Carlo is questioned by Michael on his involvement in setting up Sonny's murder and confesses he was contacted by Barzini, Peter Clemenza  kills him with a garrotte. Michael is confronted by Connie, who accuses him of having her husband killed. He denies killing Carlo when questioned by Kay, an answer she accepts. As Kay watches warily, Michael receives his capos, who address him as the new Don Corleone.The film opens with a number of figures battling with Priest Pai Mei  and Kua Ching . During the fight, famous Shaolin heroes San Te and Fong Sai-Yuk are killed, while Hung Si-Kuan  narrowly escapes. Chun Ah-Chin  is a local bean curd maker who uses the mantis style and likes to spar with his friend Ying Cha-Po , a waiter who can use anything as a weapon, particularly a bowl and a pair of chopsticks. Although the two both work menial jobs with which they are unhappy, they dream of one day becoming great heroes and dying for noble causes. Chu Tsai ([[Sun Chien  is a light skill student at a local school who is constantly abused by his master and a fellow student , He ends up befriending Ah-Chun and Cha-Po after they save him from getting beat by his fellow students. Meanwhile, Pai Mei, Kua Ching and his fighting men arrive at a temple looking for the injured Hung Si-Kuan and end up in a fight with the monks and Han Chi . Han Chi escapes but the monks are killed, so Chi goes looking for Hung Si-Kuan. Meanwhile, Hung has arrived at Chu Tsai's school, as the master is an old comrade. However, the teacher rejects Hung’s request for help and immediately reports to Pai Mei. Chu Tsai, Ah-Chun and Cha-Po find the injured Hung Si-Kuan and they conjure up schemes to get him medicine. Once healed, Hung Si-Kuan thanks the three by teaching them special techniques to perfect their skills. Han Chi also meets up with the four after helping them in a fight at Cha-Po’s restaurant. However, Chu Tsai's fellow student had spotted Chu purchasing the medicine for Hung. He reports this to Pai Mei and Kua Ching, and leads the priest and his followers to Hung Si-Kuan’s hiding place. Hung and company escape and hide in an old temple. Although they are trapped, Kua decides to wait until dawn to attack, so as not to risk one of the fugitives escaping in the dark. Morning arrives and Kua Ching attacks. Although Kua and his men are all killed, Chu Tsai is killed in the battle while Ah-Chin and Cha-Po are mortally wounded. With government troops on the way, Ah-chin and Cha-po volunteer to stay behind and occupy the troops so that Han Chi and Hung Si-Kuan can escape. The film ends as the two realize they have achieved their dream: Dying for a noble cause.Luis  is a drama teacher producing a play about repression and torture, he even develops a relationship with the play's leading actress . However as the play continues to develop, Luis receives threatening letters demanding that he abandons the play.The Advertiser. 25 November, 1993A rich couple take in a young girl who was in an accident and has amnesia, and both have an affair with her. Meanwhile, Dr. Sturges  uses an ancient Incan formula to raise the dead for his own series of revenge murders.This is a story set to pre-independence period in India. A village landlord Kanakayya  marries Seetha , who is young enough to be his daughter, with the help of village karaNam . However, he restricts her a lot after the marriage. Seetha's brother Bangaram  comes from the town and eyes Bangari , Kanakayya's deaf and dumb servant Devudu's  sister. Bangari is in love with Narasimha , another servant of Kanakayya. Bangaram rapes Bangari. Kanakayya suspects that Seetha is in love with Devudu, and in a fit of rage, he kills them both one day. People revolt against Kanakayya and kill him at the end.{{Expand section}} The film follows the last five days in the life of Erwin Weishaupt . In love with his former business partner Anton Saitz , who was not gay, he decided to change his sex and to become Elvira, but the sex change did not bring him happiness.Tora-san returns to his family's home in Shibamata, Tokyo, to find a large American peddler living in his room, leading to various conflicts. As Tora-san struggles through his love with the local Madonna  the American admits to falling for Sakura. Ultimately the two men find they have more in common than they thought.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/19050 |title2010-01-20|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 24: Tora-san's Dream of Spring  |date2010-01-20|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305834|title2010-01-20|publisher=British Film Institute}}In the background of the rise of the International Hare Krishna movement in the 1970s, is a Montreal-based family of the Jaiswals, consisting of mom, dad, son, Prashant, and daughter, Jasbir. Due to irreconciable differences between Mr and Mrs Jaiswal, they separate, leaving Jasbir with dad, and Prashant with his mom. Eventually Prashant and his mom travel to India, leaving father and daughter behind in Montreal. Mr. Jaiswal re-marries, and brings his new wife to live in his home. Years later, Prashant has grown up to be a pilot. He has received a letter from his dad that Jasbir, who had rebelled and left home, is now located in Kathmandu, Nepal, with a group of hippies. Prashant undertakes to find his sister and hopefully get her back to the family. When Prashant lands in Kathmandu he does not find Jasbir, but instead finds Janice, who is indeed his sister with a new name. Janice has no recollection of her childhood, and is always in the company of fellow-hippies. Prashant now needs to bring Jasbir back, but for that he will have to travel deep into the drug induced dark world of Janice. It was one of the biggest hits of all time.Based on a novel by Kim Won-dae,{{cite web}} the film is an anti-Communist melodrama in which personal affairs affect international relations between North and South Korea and Japan.Synopsis from {{cite web}}Tora-san watches the family shop while the rest of his family takes a vacation to Kyushu. An old friend introduces Tora-san to his sister Ritsuko, and he promptly falls in love with her. She is an artist and has no time for Tora-san.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/18159 |title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 12: Tora-san Loves an Artist  |date2010-01-18|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305848|title2010-01-18|publisher=British Film Institute}}Cinematic version of the life of the legendary freedom fighter, Alluri Sitaramaraju who raised voice against the cruelity of British rulers and fought for the tribals.In the first part  the friends Gianni , Antonio  and Nicola  are partisans who fight for the liberation of Italy from the yoke of Nazi occupation and the fascist collaborationists aiding in it. After the end of World War II, the three go for different lives: Nicola in Nocera Inferiore , Antonio in Rome and Gianni in Pavia. Later, both Antonio and Gianni fall in love with young Luciana , and through their relationships go back to the history of post-war Italy, along with the related hopes and disappointments. Gianni, now a lawyer's assistant, moves to Rome and arranges to marry the semi-illiterate daughter of a construction tycoon with questionable fame, a former fascist who managed to get good connections with the pro-American conservative Christian democratic party dominating public life  in post-war Italy. His wife, resenting her inadequacy, tries to turn into the woman he longs for but ultimately fails and dies in a car accident. Antonio, worker in a hospital, has instead remained loyal to the ideals of their youth, and is now a fervent communist activist. Nicola, the most intellectual of the trio, leaves Nocera and his family and moves to Rome, too, to try win a fortune on the famous TV quiz Lascia o raddoppia. After his failure, he leads an economically troubled life writing occasional articles for newspapers, increasingly turning himself into a caricature of an intellectual, lost in futile polemics. After several decades the three friends meet again in the trattoria where they spent their last evening together, commenting bitterly on their lives. Antonio, the orderly has less to complain about and tells his other friends that Luciana has become his wife and he now has two children with her. Later in the evening Nicola argues with him on ideological questions, eventually physically attacking him. In the fray, Gianni loses his driving license and the following day Antonio, Nicola and Luciana try to deliver it back to him. They see his villa and realize the affluent lifestyle he's leading  but they also understand that, having to sacrifice his ideals for his wealth, he is by far the least fortunate of them.{{expand-section}} American models accept a job overseas, attending the Crotavian bicentennial celebration; their employers insist that they wear chastity belts at all times.Hisako Ōuchi  is the sexually-frustrated wife of the older art academy Professor Ōuchi . Ōuchi is a repressed conservative who disdains modern art, and expels Kazuo Kobayashi , a student who specializes in SM painting. Hisako becomes obsessed with the expelled student, and has an affair with him. Kazuo and Hisako retire to a cabin in the countryside where they indulge in SM activities.{{cite book}}Tora-san plays at matchmaker, trying to arrange a romance between Ryōsuke and Sachiko. His advice proves disastrous and Tora-san instead falls in love with Ryōsuke's sister.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/18782 |title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 20: Tora-san Plays Cupid  |date2010-01-18|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305832|title2010-01-18|publisher=British Film Institute}}In pre-war Japan, Yumiko, an aristocratic lady, accompanied by her maid, travels to Tokyo to visit her brother. Unaware that her brother has become involved in anti-governmental activities and left the city, the two women are captured, raped and tortured by the military police. Two years later, during the war, the government confiscates Yumiko's estate, turning it into a torture chamber for the inquisition of prisoners. Yumiko and her maid are among those who are subjected to sexual indignities.<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn 96–97|chapter= CRUELTY: BLACK ROSE TORTURE }}The film centers on the family of Tevye , a Jewish family living in the town of Anatevka, in Tsarist Russia, in 1905. Anatevka is broken into two sections: a small Orthodox Jewish section; and a larger Russian Orthodox Christian section. Tevye notes that, "We don't bother them, and so far, they don't bother us." Throughout the film, Tevye breaks the fourth wall by talking at times, directly to the audience or to the heavens , for the audience's benefit. Much of the story is also told in musical form. Tevye is not wealthy, despite working hard, like most Jews in Anatevka, also having many children. He and his wife, Golde , have five daughters and cannot afford to give them much in the way of dowries. According to their tradition, they have to rely on the village matchmaker, Yente , to find them husbands. Life in the little town of Anatevka is very hard and Tevye speaks not only of the difficulties of being poor but also of the Jewish community's constant fear of harassment from their non-Jewish neighbors. In addition, Tevye has a lame horse, that adds to the misery of being poor, and has to carry the wagon by himself.  The film opens with Tevye explaining to the audience that what keeps the Jews of Anatevka going is the balance they achieve through following their ancient traditions. He also explains that the lot of the Jews in Russia is as precarious as a fiddler on a roof: trying to scratch out a pleasant tune, while not breaking their necks. The fiddler  appears throughout the film as a metaphoric reminder of the Jews' ever-present fears and danger, and also as a symbol of the traditions Tevye is trying to hold onto as his world changes around him. While in town, Tevye meets Perchik , a radical Marxist from Kiev. Tevye invites Perchik to stay with him and his family, and as a deal, offers him food, in exchange for Perchik tutoring his daughters. Through Yente, Tevye arranges a marriage for his oldest daughter, Tzeitel , to Lazar Wolf , a wealthy butcher. However, Tzeitel is in love with her childhood sweetheart, Motel  Kamzoil  the tailor, and begs her father not to make her marry the much older butcher. Initially angry because he has already made an "agreement" with Wolf, Tevye realizes that Tzeitel loves Motel and yields to his daughter's demands. To get Tzeitel and Tevye out of the agreement with Lazar, Tevye claims to have a nightmare, which he repeats to Golde. In the nightmare, he says that Golde's deceased Grandmother Tzeitel  told him that Tzeitel is supposed to marry Motel, as it was decided in heaven. Also in the nightmare, Lazar Wolf's late wife, Fruma-Sarah , warns Tevye that if Tzeitel marries Lazar, she will kill Tzeitel after three weeks of marriage. Golde concludes that the dream was a message to be followed from their ancestors, and Tzeitel and Motel arrange to be married. Meanwhile, after one of Perchik's lessons with Bielke and Shprintze , Tevye's second daughter, Hodel ([[Michele Marsh  mocks Perchik's interpretation of the story of Leah he told her sisters. He, in turn, criticizes her for hanging on to the old traditions of her religion and tells her that the world is changing. To illustrate this, he dances with her, because the opposite sexes dancing together is considered forbidden to Orthodox Jews. The two are shown to be falling in love, and Perchik tells Hodel that they just changed an old tradition. The constable , is basically sympathetic to the Jewish villagers, though not enough to give up his job in their defense. He resists when ordered to put on a "spontaneous" anti-Jewish demonstration but gives in to keep his job. Before Tzeitel's wedding, he warns Tevye of the impending demonstration. Later, at Tzeitel and Motel's wedding, an argument breaks out over whether a girl should be able to choose her own husband. Perchik addresses the crowd and says that, since they love each other, it should be left for the couple to decide and creates further controversy by asking Hodel to dance with him. The two begin to dance, and gradually, the crowd warms to the idea — with Tevye and Golde joining, then Motel and Tzeitel. The wedding then proceeds with great joy. Suddenly, the military presence in the town and the constable arrive and begin a pogrom, attacking the Jews and their property. The constable stops the attack on the wedding celebration after the "radical" Perchik is wounded in the scuffle with the tsar's men; however, he allows the pogrom to continue in the form of massive property damage to the village of Anatevka.  A few months later, as Perchik prepares to leave Anatevka to work for the revolution, he proposes to Hodel and she accepts. When they tell Tevye, he is furious that they have decided to marry without his permission, and with Perchik leaving Anatevka, but, again, he relents because they love each other. This time, Tevye tells Golde the truth — and as a side effect, is prompted to re-evaluate their own arranged marriage and relationship. Weeks later, when Perchik is arrested in Kiev and is exiled to Siberia, Hodel decides to join him there. She promises Tevye that she and Perchik will be married under a canopy there. Not too long afterwards, Tzeitel and Motel become parents, and Motel finally buys the sewing machine for which he has long scrimped and saved. By now they are becoming, in their own right, respected members of the community, and a close, almost father-son relationship is developing between Motel and Tevye — who, not so long ago, had scorned Motel as a nobody. Meanwhile, Tevye's third daughter, Chava , has fallen in love with a young Russian — a Russian Orthodox Christian — man, Fyedka ([[Ray Lovelock . She eventually works up the courage to ask Tevye to allow her to marry him. Horrified, Tevye forbids her to see him again, but they elope and are married in a Russian Orthodox church. In a soliloquy reminiscent of those spoken by Tevye concerning his other daughters but with a radically different conclusion, Tevye concludes that he cannot accept Chava marrying a non-Jew, in effect abandoning the Jewish faith, so he disowns her. Finally, the Jews of Anatevka are notified that they have to leave the village or be forced out by the government; they have three days. Tevye, his family and friends begin packing up to leave, heading for various parts of The United States and other places. Chava and her husband, Fyedka, come to Tevye's house and tell her family that they are leaving too — unable to stay in a place that would force innocent people out. Tevye shows signs of forgiving Chava for marrying outside her faith by telling Tzeitel to tell them, "God be with them," pleasing his wife and daughters, who also tell them where they will be living in New York, United States. Just before the closing credits, Tevye spots the fiddler and motions to him to come along, symbolizing that even though he must leave his town, his traditions will always be with him. The film ends with the fiddler following Tevye down the road, playing the "Tradition" theme.Milo, a bored, lonely boy who lives in a San Francisco apartment block all by himself, is surprised by the sudden arrival of a large, gift-wrapped package. Inside is a tollbooth, which turns out to be a gateway into a magical parallel universe. As Milo passes through the tollbooth, the character moves from live action to animation, and his toy car transports him to the enchanted Kingdom of Wisdom and the cities of Digitopolis and Dictionopolis. Accompanied by a watchdog called Tock , Milo has a series of adventures in places like the Mountains of Ignorance, the Doldrums, Dictionopolis, Digitopolis, and the Castle in the Air. Together they must rescue the Princesses Rhyme and Reason, who are being held captive in the Castle in the Air, and restore order to the Kingdom of Wisdom. The many eccentric characters they meet include the noisy Dr. Dischord, the Mathemagician, King Azaz, the Senses Taker, and Officer Short Shrift.Sam Damon  is a good family man and praiseworthy warrior. Courtney Massengale  is the opposite—a womanizing, self-aggrandizing conniver.Gay actor Martin Kurath  who is in prison develops a friendship with Thomas Manzoni , the 15-year-old son of the prison warden . The two fall in love and they both yearn for Kurath's release. This triggers intense indignation in their surroundings. After Kurath is released a year later, Thomas accompanied by Kurath, tells his parents he is a homosexual. His father tells him to leave and never return. Kurath and Thomas move in together and Thomas enrolls in school. Thomas' father, however, then has him arrested and condemned to a brutal reformatory. Kurath obtains a fake passport and poses as a psychology doctoral candidate and helps Thomas escape with him to Germany. They are betrayed by a German homosexual friend of Kurath's who insists, in Kurath's absence, that Thomas become his lover in order to obtain a German residency permit. Thomas does so, but then refuses to sleep with the betrayer, is kicked out and prostitutes himself. Broken by these experiences, he voluntarily returns to the reformatory. When he reaches 21 and is released, he is so psychologically damaged that, despite reunion with Kurath, he attempts suicide and is committed to a psychiatric hospital. He escapes and the film ends with a TV announcement that the police are looking for him and that the public should, if approaching him, treat him gently, as he is very depressed and confused.Bhuvana Oru Kelvi Kuri is a gripping family and emotional drama starring Sivakumar, Sumithra and Rajnikanth in lead roles.Tora-san returns home informing his family of his intention to marry. The plans are foiled when the woman's long-missing husband reappears. Later, Tora-san meets Utako from Tora-san's Dear Old Home . Her husband has died, and, out of obligation, she is living with his demanding parents. Tora-san persuades her to come to Tokyo, where she meets her estranged father, an author. Torasan's romantic intentions with Utako come to nothing when she decides to devote her life to teaching mentally handicapped children.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/28546 |title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 13: Tora-san's Lovesick  |date2010-01-18|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305839|title2010-01-18|publisher=British Film Institute}}Brother George is the only monk at the Italian Monastery who knows the secret recipe of the popular liqueur that is the sole source of income for the monastery. When he feels their sole distributor, a local wine merchant, isn't giving the Monastery a fair price, he leaves and moves to Australia. There he works at a vineyard picking grapes and starts making the Liquor in his spare time. George then comes to the attention of the Winery owner Alfredo Brazzi and the two agree to a partnership to make the liqueur. Alfredo is unaware George is a monk and that he sends 50 Percent of the money back to his Italian monastery. Alfredo and his son-in-law Tim constantly try to steal the secret recipe. They recruit June for their skulduggery, but she falls in love with George, also unaware of his religious calling. Finally, the Italian wine merchant travels to Sydney, willing to make a deal with Brother George. The merchant ends up paying double the price he had previously rejected.{{cite news}}Karate master and anti-drug vigilante Chiba returns to his home in Japan, where he holds a press conference announcing his intention to wipe out the nation's drug industry. He also offers his services as a bodyguard to anyone who is willing to come forward and provide information about the drug lords' activities. He is soon approached by a mysterious woman claiming to have important information and asking for Chiba's protection. She seems to be legitimate, but is she really what she appears to be?In a small Czech town named Jilemnice lives an unfortunate but brave and jovial woman Štěpa Kiliánová, whose only desire was to fill the void in her virgin life. Out of despair and excessive trust, she marries a sardonic, reclusive man, former lieutenant and gambler Pavel Malina, whose only wish is to find peace and forget the past. They live through unrequited love, dislike and disappointment. But no one knows that her groom is showing signs of cerebral disease, which engulfs his sanity.The film follows Fando  and his paraplegic girlfriend Lis  through a barren, post-apocalyptic wasteland in search of the mythical city of Tar, where legend has it all wishes come true.Hu Te et al. escape the burning Shaolin temple after the Qing soldiers destroyed it in Shaolin Temple. The group of 5 decide to develop secret codes to identify fellow patriots, enlist those patriots and eventually meet up again to escape to the south away from the Qings, and also identify the traitor who sold out Shaolin temple. Ma Fu Yi , joins the Qing top fighters to eliminate the rebels but is exposed by Ma Chao-Tsing who gets captured by Ma Fu Yi. Hu meets up with a group of Shaolin men secretly posing as bandits to rescue Ma as their leader is killed in the process, thus the bandits join the rest of the Shaolin patriots. Suffering continuous defeats at the hands of the Qing kung fu experts, the 5 patriots return to the Shaolin temple ruins to perfect their kung fu and take revenge for their destroyed temple and dead comrades.Vishwam  is the youngest brother of the powerful and influential village Zamindar . The Zamindar will not hesitate to do anything for the welfare and protection of his family, which also includes bending the law to his own advantage. The shy and quiet Vishwam is married to Rukmani  and, unlike his brothers, does not indulge in alcohol or women, nor does he have any bad habits. Then the village gets a new schoolmaster , who has a wife, Sushila . When Vishwam sees her for the first time, he is unable to take his eyes off her, and unable to get her out of his mind. Sushila does not reciprocate his attentions. Then one night, while the schoolmaster is enjoying a quiet dinner with his family, the bell rings and the two older brothers of Vishwam grab Sushila and take her forcibly when she goes to answer the door. Several people are present, but no one dares to raise a hand nor even a voice to stop this abduction. The distraught schoolteacher, who is denied justice by everyone from the local police officer to the district collector, is helped by the old priest  and finally they succeed in mobilizing the villagers and they slaughter their oppressors. In the end the frenzied villagers also kill the innocent Rukmani as well as Sushila whom her husband tried to rescue with the help of the rebellious villagers.Plot summaryHeroes Two begins with the burning of the Shaolin Temple, and chronicles the efforts of Fong Sai Yuk  and Hung Si Kuan  as they combat the forces of oppression, fighting alongside the Chinese revolutionaries. Manchurian General Che Kang  is a clever Warlord who capitalizes on the naïveté of Fong Sai Yuk. Neither man realizes that they fight for the Shaolin cause, and General Che Kang tricks Fong Sai Yuk into believing that Hung Si Kuan is a renegade bandit. With the help of the General’s henchmen, Fong Sai Yuk defeats a bloodied Hung Si Kuan. Then the tough rebel is put into shackles inside the General’s castle. Word quickly spreads that Fong Sai Yuk beat the unbeatable Shaolin hero, and the local faction of the rebellion attacks the unknowing Fong Sai Yuk for his rash actions. When the rebel leader reveals the true nature of Hung Si Kuan, Fong Sai Yuk is beside himself. The naïve martial artist initially intends to correct his mistake by sneaking into the General’s dungeon and liberating his cohort from the grasp of the Manchurians. However, General Che Kang himself is a powerful Kung Fu practitioner who foils Fong Sai Yuk’s plans. Once Fong Sai Yuk joins his Rebel brothers, they devise a plan to tunnel into the underground prison and rescue Hung Si Kuan. After several tenuous attempts at freeing him, the Shaolin heroes succeed in their task. Now reunited, Fong Sai Yuk, Hung Si Kuan, and their Rebel brothers must endure the assault of General Che Kang and his Manchurian army.The film is  loosely based on Pablo Picasso's life and death, narrated by Toivo Pawlo, who introduces himself as Elsa Beskow. It opens with a quote by Picasso himself: "Art is a lie that leads us closer to the truth." The story starts with Picasso's birth in Málaga, Spain. His father, Don Jose , is an artist and discovers early his son's talent when the young boy makes a sculpture of Don Jose with his food. When Pablo is old enough  his father takes him to Madrid, so that Pablo can study art. On their way, they encounter two robbers who try to hurt a beautiful girl named Dolores . After a slapstick number in which Picasso defeats the two attackers, she gives him a bottle of paint, containing a djinn. With the paint from that bottle he signs all his paintings. At the academy of art Pablo's talent is praised and awarded. When he returns home with a portrait of his mother Dona Maria , he is equally praised there. Unfortunately, their happiness is ruined when Don Jose suddenly dies - or so it seems. At the funeral it turns out he's actually still alive. Despite this, Dona Maria keeps ignoring him with the words: "Idioto, tu és muerta". Pablo leaves for Paris, but has a hard time selling any of his paintings. One day his father comes to visit him, bringing the sad news that Dona Maria is dead. When Don Jose starts to eat an apple that Pablo used as a reference for his painting, Picasso starts to draw faster, still using the apple as reference. The result is the birth of cubism. This new style, however, is very hard to sell - until Pablo's father gets an idea from a fishing rod. He lowers the painting down from a window during a vernissage. The overall reaction is negative, with comments like "Scandal", "Merde", "Oh, mon dieu" and "piss". One of the guests however, finds the picture both charming and marvelous and declares that she wants to buy it. This lady is none other than the great writer Gertrude Stein , who is attending the vernissage with her companion Alice B. Toklas . After this, Picasso becomes the center of the artworld of Paris. Along with names like Braque, Matisse, Fernand Léger, Pompidou, Entrecôte, Carl Larsson, Karl-Alfred, Loulou, Dodo, Jou-Jou, Clo-Clo, Margot, Frou Frou, Jenny Nyström, Hejsan-Tjosan, Corselet, Omelette and Rembrandt . The Paris artworld also included Hemingway, who enjoys knitting, Erik Satie, Guillaume Apollinaire, Henri Rousseau, Vincent van Gogh and no less than two Toulouse-Lautrec. Along with Mimi, a waitress who gave Puccini the inspiration to "Thy tiny hand is frozen", the reason for this being that she is carrying a wine cooler. After this introduction to the artworld of Paris, the narrator tells about a "normal" day in Picassos life. It ends with a visit from Mr. and Mrs. Guggenheim from New York. Although the Swedish American multimillionaire Ingrid Svensson-Guggenheim  doesn't understand Picasso's art, she knows that it is expensive, and therefore immortal. She becomes a pest and at whatever the cost she is determined to become a part of Picasso's art and world. When Picasso no longer seems to be able to escape the annoying American, his two friends Rousseau  and Apollinaire  invite him to Rousseau's hidden forest, where Apollinaire reads aloud some of his poems for his friends. This gives Picasso an idea. They will have a masquerade in Rousseaus honor. This masquerade has a lot of famous historic persons, most of them dressed as furniture. It all ends with Rousseau, while playing his violin, flying out the window and into the night of Paris. Now it's 1914 and Picasso and all of humanity is looking forward to a bright future full of liberty, equality and fraternity. This is all destroyed however with the coming of World War I and the headlines "KRASH! BOM! BANG! In 1918, when the war is over, Pablo once again meets his father, who has invented a new shampoo that will regrow hair. It has another effect on Pablo however, who loses all of his hair and gives him his famous bald look. Shortly after this, Pablo gets the job to make the sets and clothes for the russian ballet. The ballet, premiering in London, is not a success however. Don Jose makes the dancers' food and all the performers end up passing gas. Picasso returns to Paris, where he meets Sirkka , a Finnish singer who sings a song that he becomes enchanted by. However, when it turns out that that song (which is essentially a recipe for making a kalakukko  is the only one Sirkka’s got on her repertoire, Picasso soon gets sick of it and leaves for New York with his father. In America there is a prohibition on art . Pablo works underground and one day he is asked to deliver a set of pictures to a Mrs. X. It turns out that this mysterious woman is none other than Ingrid Svensson-Guggenheim. She doesn't give up so easily, but Picasso manages to escape her flirting. When delivering art to the local gangster Big Mac, Pablo, Don Jose and Ingrid Svensson-Guggenheim are caught in a shootout between Big Mac and his rival Mr. Peperoni. The shootout is interrupted however by a police raid. A very foulmouthed cop accuses Pablo of being a murderer and states that art is a lethal poison. It all turns into an impromptu trial against Pablo with Ingrid Svensson-Guggenheim and the two gangs as the jury. Don Jose, acting as Pablo's lawyer tries to defend his son, stating that Picasso's work is not art, but childish graffiti. However, Pablo is still found guilty and is sentenced to death by the electric chair. The chair refuses to work however, and the electrician, a Norwegian named Grieg , is sent in to fix it. It all backfires however and in the mess Pablo draws a door on the wall and escapes back to Europe. In Europe however, "the monsters" -- Benito Mussolini, Adolf Hitler and Francisco Franco -- have seized power. Don Jose joins the German army and later on becomes promoted to the rank of Hauptbahnhof  in the SS, in charge of Operation Ostrich, with the mission to find opposition men in hiding. During the war, Picasso uses his apartment to hide opposition members. When the war is over, Don Jose quickly changes into French clothes, stating "I like Ike!", waving the American flag and singing My Old Kentucky Home, charming the Americans in pretty much the same way he did with the Germans. After World War II Pablo settles down at the Riviera, were he once again meets the love of his youth, Dolores, and her granddaughter (who, like young Dolores, is played by Lena Olin. Inspired by them Picasso sends his doves  out in a world plagued by the Cold War. After a while, Don Jose shows up again with his new wife, who turns out to be Ingrid Svensson-Guggenheim. Picasso is trapped by his own fame, he has become an industry and his house is converted into a museum while he still lives in it. After drinking the last of the ink in the magic bottle Dolores gave him years ago, he falls asleep and dies. At the same moment all the signatures on Picasso's paintings disappear, it becomes The Great Picasso crash. But, as we find out, Picasso is not really dead. When everyone has left the room he gets up, waves goodbye to his paintings and fades into the wall.A young British schoolteacher heads to the Eastern Bloc to try to locate her husband who has gone missing, and soon turns out to have been detained by Soviet intelligence as a spy.http://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/28944Chan Sing plays a young man, Cheung Da Gong, who travels from place to place earning a living as a fighter. He fights at times on a stage before spectators, as a hired body guard and altruistically to protect shopkeepers from thugs looking to collect protection money. One day Cheung receives a letter which prompts him to return home where his elderly father is sick and dying. At his father's death bed Cheung vows at his father's behest to stay and work his family's farm and to give up fighting. Local gangsters try to buy Cheung's land and when Cheung refuses attempt to intimidate him first through threats and then by burning down his house, killing Cheung's sister and mother in the process. Cheung motivated by revenge hunts down the gangsters eventually tracking down their leader and killing him. The movie ends with Cheung submitting to the local authorities when he is arrested on charges of murder with the local deputy admonishing him, "You should have left retribution to the law."The story begins with the birth of the Tsarevich Alexei in the opulent surroundings of the Imperial Court. The Russo-Japanese War is on and Tsar Nicholas  is warned by Count Witte  and Grand Duke Nicholas  that the war is futile and costing too many lives. They also tell him that the Russian people want a representative government, health care, voting and workers' rights, but Nicholas wants to maintain the traditional autocracy left to him by his forefathers. Meanwhile, underground political parties led by Vladimir Lenin ([[Michael Bryant , Joseph Stalin  and Leon Trotsky ([[Brian Cox  have formed. Alexei is soon diagnosed with haemophilia. The Tsarina Alexandra  is frantic. A shy former German princess who is not highly thought of by the Russian royal court, she is isolated, but is befriended by Grigori Rasputin , a Siberian peasant who describes himself as a religious pilgrim or holy man. He has become a curiosity with some people at court. Later Alexandra calls upon him to help her pray for Alexei, and comes to believe in his healing, life-saving abilities. In a textile mill, working under ghastly conditions, the people are encouraged by their priest, Father George Gapon . He leads them, joined by many other peasant workers, in a clearly peaceful procession to the Winter Palace, intending to present a petition to the Tsar. Hundreds of soldiers stand ready in front of the palace; their commanding officer tells them to shoot up in the air, but he falls from his horse, there is a panic, and the soldiers proceed to fire randomly into the crowd. Nicholas has not been at the palace and is horrified when he hears of the massacre, but admits he wouldn't have granted the people's requests. ([[Bloody Sunday  Eight years later, on the 300th anniversary of Romanov rule, the family holidays at the Livadia Palace in the Crimea. Alexei  is a very lively little boy who is constantly prevented from leading a normal life. A close bond, however, exists between Alexei and his bodyguard/protector, the Russian Naval Sailor Nagorny . Prime Minister Pyotr Stolypin , who succeeded Witte, has commissioned the Imperial Duma and granted some of the people’s requests in order to preserve the Russian Empire. Prime Minister Stolypin also presents Nicholas with police reports about Rasputin's dissolute behaviour, which is serving to give the Tsar a bad reputation. As a result, the Tsar dismisses Rasputin from the court. Alexandra demands his return. She knows Alexei’s haemophilia was inherited from her, and is racked with guilt. She is obsessed with the thought that only Rasputin can stop the bleeding attacks when they occur. The Tercentenary celebration occurs in a grand fashion with much partying and festivities, but takes a turn for the worse when Prime Minister Stolypin is shot at an opera performance in Kiev. Nicholas retaliates not only by uprooting the conspiracy and executing the killers, but also by closing the Duma and allowing police to terrorise the peasants and burn their homes. Alexei has a minor fall at the Spala Hunting Lodge, which leads to his worst internal bleeding attack yet. It is presumed that he will die. The Tsaritsa writes a letter to Rasputin, who soon responds with words of comfort and confidence. Sure enough, the Tsarevich recovers, and Rasputin is allowed to return. World War I begins a few weeks after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, part of Austria-Hungary. Germany declares war on Russia immediately after Nicholas has ordered the mobilisation of Russia’s forces on the German border. Nicholas decides to command the troops himself in 1915 and leaves for the front, taking over from his much more experienced cousin, Grand Duke Nicholas. This leaves Alexandra in charge at home. Under Rasputin's influence and her own conservative inclinations, she makes unwise decisions. Very few people have been told about Alexei's illness or how Rasputin appears to be helping him, so it looks like the Tsarina is losing her mind, or perhaps having an affair with Rasputin. Out on the front lines, Nicholas is visited by his mother the Dowager Empress Maria Foeodorovna , , who scolds him about not attending to crumbling domestic issues and implores him to eliminate Rasputin . On a sort of drunken whim, two decadent young princes, Grand Duke Dmitri  and Prince Felix Yusupov ([[Martin Potter , invite Rasputin to an opium party and kill him in December, 1916. Deprived of her only trusted advisor, Alexandra becomes unable to cope. Workers go on strike everywhere. The army is ill supplied. Starving and freezing, they revolt and St. Petersburg is overrun with them. Nicholas makes a long return to Tsarskoye Selo, but is forced to abdicate in his train at Mogilev, not only for himself but for Alexei, who is furious when he hears this, and becomes withdrawn, believing that the family will soon perish.  The family (and Dr. Botkin  are forced to leave the Alexander Palace at Tsarskoye Selo by Kerensky and are brought to Siberia in mid-1917, where they live under less grand conditions with rough but decent guards. In late 1917, Russia falls into the hands of the Bolshevik Party, the one revolutionary group that nobody took seriously. The Russian Civil War starts very soon afterwards, and the family is transferred to the grim Ipatiev House in Yekaterinburg, under harsher conditions, and into the keeping of the cold-blooded and unfeeling Yakov Yurovsky ([[Alan Webb  . At one point, some of the guards are physically harsh with young Alexei, so Nagorny leaps to his defence and attacks them. Nagorny is taken away and shot, leaving Alexei even more embittered and withdrawn than he was before. In a near-final tragic scene, the family is shown laughing as they read previously withheld letters from friends, relatives and teachers. Only Alexei remains aloof, sensing what is about to happen. The Bolsheviks are frantically deciding what to do as the White Army is on the verge on capturing Yekaterinburg. In the middle of the night of 16/17 July 1918, the Bolsheviks awaken the Romanov family and Dr. Botkin. Told they’re being sent to another city, the family and the doctor pack their things and wait in the cellar. Their keeper Yurovsky and his assistants enter the room, as Alexei kisses his father for the last time. They point their guns at the family, causing Olga  and Tatiana  to scream, Maria  to run into the doctor’s arms and Alexandra to cross herself. Then they open fire, and the first bullet goes through Nicholas' hand. The end scene shows the wall covered in blood.During the era of Japanese occupation, Sol Jin-young, a Korean patriarch refuses to obey the law to change the family's name to a Japanese name. Tani, a member of the Japanese occupation forces, is sent to persuade Sol to comply with the order. Tani is conflicted between his duty, his respect for Korean culture and his attraction to Sol's daughter.Synopsis from {{cite web}}In historical times, the Shogun family employs a group of Iga ninjas to take over the Akizuki clan's lands. The Akizuki hire the Fumi ninjas, a group of female warriors who enhance their fighting ability with sexual magic such as the "white snake spell". When the Akizuki emerge victorious, Tsukinojo, the leader of the Fumi ninjas, marries Lord Akizuki.{{cite book}}El Chanfle  is a waterboy at Club América who helps the coach, Moncho Reyes  during soccer games, by giving the players water and helping them with shoes and everything else they need during the game. Constantly he daydreams during the games, causing him to accidentally kick the coach during penalty shots. He is married to Tere , a typical housewife, passionate about soccer, mainly because of Chanfle's job. Despite having been married for 10 years, they are not precisely in the best financial situation, to the point in which they could not afford fixing an old sofa, which falls to the back when someone seats on it. One day, Tere was talking to Chanfle about saving, and she said : "You saw what I bought at the supermarket?". Then Tere showed Chanfle a pair of new shoes. So Chanfle said: "That isn't saving, that is spending!". After that Tere said: "Nope, it's saving, because I bought them in the supermarket and nobody charged me for them", making Chanfle realize that his wife took a pair of shoes without paying them, so he  rolled up two imaginary sleevs and returned to the store with Tere. There, he paid 299 pesos, in order to pay for the shoes, to a nice lady cashier store clerk , who told them that already their bosses would discount that amount from her salary, therefore he did not have to pay for the shoes. Tere and Chanfle, who had been married for 10 years, had never had children, and they wanted to, since Tere was 28 years old and Chanfle was 35. So, Chanfle's boss and president of the club, Mr. Matute  knew that after Chanfle asked him a raise. Then, Mr. Matute told Dr. Nájera , who was the physician at the soccer team, about Chan fle's and Tere's predicament. After Tere and Chanfle talked with Dr. Nájera, the Doctor told them that he knew some people at some lab, so Chanfle and his wife went there for some lab tests. Incidentally, Dr. Nájera sat on the coach and, due to his overweight figure, he brokes the floor making him fall down to Dr. Chapatin's apartment, some floors behind. After that, Tere brought the results to Dr. Nájera, who told her she was going to have a baby. She was nervous and very happy at the same time, then she gave the news to her husband, who also was very happy, to the point of jumping and dancing at the club's patio. But Tere and Chanfle were in the same need of money they had before. So they decided to sell an old gun, formerly belonging to Tere's father. Chanfle and Tere went down the street and tried to sell the pistol to a drunk man named Paco , who thought that they were trying to assault him, due to Chanfle showing the gun as he was pointing him, and proceeded to give some things from his house to Chanfle . Paco then shouted at a policeman that Tere and Chanfle were trying to assault him, so they began to run, hence they had no success selling the pistol. Another day, Chanfle and his wife Tere were shopping at the store where the nice clerk was working at. So, it is later discovered that Paco, the drunk man, was the husband of this nice cashier. Paco bumps Chanfle at the parking lot of the store, and because Paco was angry because he thought Chanfle was robbing him the other time they had met, he threw Chanfle a watermelon and chased him all the way to a city park. When Chanfle got back to the parking lot, Tere wanted to drive home herself and was impatient about it, causing her to become less careful with her driving and to crash with another car. Then, because Chanfle was highly ethical, he was willing to pay for the damage to the car's owner. So he went to the clerk and asked her who was the owner of the car with the license plates: 631-ACJ. When the clerk heard that she sadly said: "Only yesterday, I had my car at the mechanic". Another worry for Chanfle and Tere: they didn't have money for paying to the lady's car damage, nor to repair their old sofa. This problem was solved when Tere went once again to the supermarket and gave the nice clerk 100 pesos for the car's repair. Then, the clerk confessed that her husband wanted to buy a gun. When Tere heard this, she promptly and very happily said: "I'll sell you one!!!". That evening, she sold the gun to the supermarket clerk and now Tere was debt-free. So the months go by, and Tere was going to give birth. Club America is expected to play the championship game against Atletico Español and Tere is expecting to have her child after the game, so she went to the soccer stadium with Diana , the soccer club's secretary, who was in love with one of the most popular players at the team, Valentino . Then Tere met again with the clerk and her husband Paco, who said, stranged: "Have we met before??", during the game, Tere began to give birth so, with the help of Tere and the nice clerk she is taken to the infirmary to be attended by Dr. Najera. At the same time, Valentino cheated to provoke a penalty kick which helped América get a goal. In the second half, Chanfle learns that his wife was about to give birth, at the same time that an Atletico defender puts Valentino down to sentence another penalty kick. At that moment, Chanfle daydreamed about his son to be, dreaming that the boy became a famous player for America  and is able to be a forward for his team scoring an irrational number of goals for America in that game. But he wakes up after kicking coach Don Moncho again when daydreaming about his son shooting a penalty kick. After this he is kicked off the game intentionally in order to see his wife. Chanfle bumped with Paco again, who had the gun already on his hands, and was going to kill Chanfle. The wild run which ensued, caused them to enter the stadium again and both end causing the game to be suspended. While Tere is suffering with the birth pain at the same time as Valentino is suffering due to the lesion he got in game. When Valentino sees Tere he asked her what is going on, and she tell him "We'll have a baby", surprised  he began to scream stronger. Paco chased Chanfle to the medical office, where Tere was giving birth to a girl, to Chanfle's dismay. So, the clerk explained to her husband that Chanfle was that honest man who paid his wife's soes and sold her the pistol. Paco still thought that Chanfle was trying to rob him, until Tere said that her husband's real purpose was selling the gun when Paco was drunk. Tere then said that Paco couldn't kill Chanfle because the pistol was broken. Then Chanfle, hearing this, asked Paco: "How much do I owe you?". At the end, Mr. Matute announced that Chanfle wasn't going to be in his current job, instead he'll be the Children's team coach. At the time when Chanfle was going to sign his contract, he accidentally broke all the office furniture and also a "The End" glass sign.Tetsuo Okita  is a former businessman who lost his manufacturing company to bankruptcy and separated from his wife and son a year earlier. Desperate to make ends meet and start over, he collaborates with activist Masaru Koga  and his former employee Hiroshi Ōshiro  in an elaborate plot to extort money from the government. Hikari 109 is a high-speed Bullet Train carrying 1,500 passengers from Tokyo to Hakata. Shortly after Hikari 109{{'}}s departure, railway security head Miyashita  is notified by Okita that a bomb has been planted aboard the train, and it will explode if the train slows down below 80 km/h. As proof of the bomb's efficiency, Okita tells Miyashita that a similar bomb has been placed on freight train 5790 bound from Yūbari to Oiwake. When freight train 5790 indeed explodes, Hikari 109{{'}}s conductor Aoki  is informed by Shinkansen director Kuramochi  not to slow down the train below 120 km/h while the security personnel aboard the train search for the bomb - thus delaying the trip to Hakata by three hours. Police officials back in Tokyo are tasked to either find the bomber or the bomb first. Back aboard Hikari 109, passengers start becoming weary when security does a second search, demanding for the train to stop. For the duration of the journey, Kuramochi must coordinate with Aoki on timing the train's speed and position to avoid incoming traffic while keeping it safe from the speed-sensitive detonator. Okita calls the National Railway authorities again; this time, he demands US$5 million in an aluminum suitcase in exchange for the safety of Hikari 109{{'}}s passengers. As the Prime Minister has the money ready, police find their first lead when a cigarette pack containing fingerprints of Koga are found at Yūbari station prior to freight train 5790's departure. Meanwhile, passengers aboard Hikari 109 start to panic when the train passes through Nagoya, with a pregnant passenger named Kazuko Hirao  going into labor. As a means of settling down the passengers, co-engineer Kikuchi  tells them of the bomb on board. National Railway officials are in further disdain when they realize that the bomb is attached to one of the train's wheels. Okita once more calls the officials and tells them to send the money northbound via helicopter and land at Yorii High School. Officer Senda , who carries the suitcase, is then instructed to cross the Arakawa River; upon reaching Iwate, the suitcase is roped and pulled up a cliff by Ōshiro. However, Ōshiro is forced to drop the case and retreat when police yell at a university judo team jogging nearby of his presence. Fleeing via motorcycle, Ōshiro finds himself tailed by several squad cars until he collides with one and is killed after hitting a light post. The passengers once again panic when a businessman threatens to pull the emergency door latch open as the train passes through Osaka; they are further exacerbated when they hear of Ōshiro's death on the radio. Meanwhile, police locate Koga, but fail to arrest him, despite wounding him during the chase. Koga limps back into Okita's hideout to have his gunshot wound tended. Okita ponders on giving up his mission, as he has failed to prevent any bloodshed, but Koga convinces him to carry on. As police trace the bomb parts to Okita's former company in Shimura, Okita makes another phone call and tells Miyashita to drop the money at an abandoned truck by the Kanda motorway in 10 minutes. After the police do as instructed, Okita takes the suitcase and makes his getaway. Back aboard the train, Kazuko loses her baby and is in need of a blood transfusion. Okita then calls Miyashita and tells him to pick up a diagram of the bomb at Sun Plaza cafe in Shinbashi. Unfortunately, the cafe is destroyed in a fire by the time police arrive. When the police surround Okita's hideout, Koga blows himself up with a stick of dynamite rather than turn himself in. With no other options left, Kuramochi goes on television to make an appeal for Okita to help them disable the bomb. On the train, Shinji Fujio , a former accomplice of Okita being escorted after his arrest, reveals that Okita is on his way out of Japan using a false name. With the help of high-speed cameras, the Shinkansen authorities manage to locate the bomb underneath the second coach. Kuramochi relays the information to Aoki and sends a rescue train to provide welding equipment to cut an access hole where the bomb is. Aoki succeeds in defusing the bomb, but the authorities suspect a second bomb located elsewhere underneath the train. Despite this, the government gives the order to stop the train. Aoki manages to stop Hikari 109 without incident. As Kuramochi leaves the main control room to regain his composure, he discovers that his appeal is still being broadcasted on TV. Miyashita explains that this is part of the police's trap for Okita. Overwhelmed by the pressure of the day's situation, Kuramochi resigns from his position. Meanwhile, at Haneda Airport, Okita prepares to board his flight, but his cover is blown when his ex-wife Yasuko Tomita  and son Kenichi spot him. He is shot dead while attempting to escape outside the airport.The story of the film is based on two sisters Shabana and Farzana , who have similar faces but different personality traits. Farzana is reserved and dutiful girl, whereas her sister Shabana is a lively, enthusiastic and bubbly type. Shahid played a role of a rich man's spoilt son and a playboy. Waheed Murad played a role of a suspicious husband. The story starts when Shahid trapped Farzana  into a secret wedding, attended only by his closest aides and a dubious maulvi. After having consummated the marriage Shahid informs his stunned bride that her services are no longer required and when she objects, he tosses her out of the apartment window, plunging her towards death. However, she survives and when she returns, her mother and Shabana are horrified to hear her story. Shabana decides to take revenge on Shahid for having deceived her saintly, legless and now pregnant sister. Shahid reels in horror when Shabana returns to the office pretending to be a resurrected Farzana and resumes her duties as secretary. At about the same time, Shahid's younger brother Waheed Murad arrives home and finds his elder brother behaving in an abnormal, flustered manner. Now Shabana's plan kicks into gear and she begins to blackmail Shahid about the attempted murder and begins to make him pay for the cruelty that he inflicted on her . Meanwhile Waheed and Shabana fall in love with each other and both get married. One day, just when Shabana has tortured Shahid sufficiently by singing to him and behaving like a punch-drunk retarded dwarf, Waheed overhears them and assumes that they are having a raging affair and were married before he met her. Finally, in a shattering climax, all is revealed and injustices are addressed.In this historical drama set during the Imjin War, Kwak Jae-Wu leads an army against the Japanese invaders. Once he and his soldiers have helped defeat the Japanese, Kwak refuses a government post as reward from the Royal Court, and chooses instead to live the rest of his life in Bipa Mountain.<ref namehttp://www.kmdb.or.kr/eng/md_basic.asp?nation02687|title2009-07-18|publisher=Korean Movie Database  }}In 1970, The vast rice fields. Clark's  love than love with Thong Kwao . But fear is disappointing that because Clark's until The land was mortgaged to the Chom Thong Kwao confirmed, but love it. Clark promised that if the sale of rice to engage Thong Kwao. Clark's hit that poor and seize the land because of debt to Chom Thong pack and Ruby Thong Kwao parents. Is sent to live with Aunt Thong Kwao Bangkok. Thong Kwao was introduced to Thammarak. Aunt nephew of gold The war gold hope for kids, both married.So do not become the property of others. Thong Kwao that Clark's wanted to come but to ask parents to call the bride Thong Kwao ten thousand. Thong Kwao meaning but hurried back to find that Clark's was with Clark's that Saijai. Thong Kwao made mistake Thong Kwao has agreed to engage Thammarak. But Thammarak already has a wife Rue war is chasing gold Thammarak and wife back.But news of the engagement of the Golden Thong Kwao with Thammarak announced the ear piece bandit. Thong Kwao and capture the war to ransom. That Clark's and police to help in time. Gold pieces, which his father and mother Ruby did not dare refuse. The couple has married.When the boss of a yakuza clan in 1920s Osaka is assassinated, Oryu, his mistress, vows revenge. Her search for the killer takes her out of the city. The old boss' son proves a poor leader, only interested in Omitsu, his high-class girlfriend. Yajima, the second-in-command, is taking advantage of the situation to accumulate power for himself. Oryu is called back to help stabilize the situation. Yajima kidnaps both Oryu and Omitsu, and subjects them to torture and various forms of sexual humiliations. During the S&M sessions, Oryu learns that Yajima was the killer of the old boss.<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn304–305}}It is a story which deals with a crush between two brothers  and how they unite in the end. Jayachitra and Chandrakala play their love interests respectively. Anjali Devi plays their mother with Halam, Jayamalini, Chalam and Allu Ramalingaiah in the supporting cast.After discovering that Shaolin is linked with Liu and the Eight Swordsmen - all rebels, Emperor Yong Zheng orders General Kim and his cannon squad to lay waste to the Temple. With little warning, Kim’s soldiers begin to fire on the Temple, causing massive death and destruction. Despite the severity of the situation, the abbot orders that the only way students may leave the Temple is by passing through the hall of 18 Bronzemen, in keeping with Temple tradition. Students pour into the hall, ill-prepared to face the rigors of the Bronzemen. After agonizing over his loss of judgment, the abbot rushes to open another escape route by holding up an enormous stone while students rush underneath. Unable to save himself, the abbot gives the final copy of the famed "18 styles" of kung fu to his trusted student Siu . Having escaped, Siu and the remaining students and teachers hide from their Manchu pursuers while plotting to kill the Emperor. As one attempt fails, their hopes are set on a final plot, of which the success or failure rests upon a fellow Shaolin monk-turned-traitor.When Tora-san returns to visit his family, he is surprised to find an arrogant professor occupying his room. The professor and Tora-san become rivals for the affection of Chiyo. Both lose, and the professor leaves for America while Tora-san returns to his travels.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/28528 |title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 10: Tora-san's Dream Come True  |date2010-01-18|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305846|title2010-01-18|publisher=British Film Institute}}Little Mute  is a new Shaolin student who is mute. He struggles to keep up with the other students and to complete the grueling tasks assigned to him by his instructor. He is haunted by the memory of his father's murder at the hands of a masked bandit who was skilled in martial arts. One night, a drunken monk leads Little Mute to a secret cave behind a waterfall. A man is imprisoned there. Over time, Little Mute befriends the violent prisoner by bringing him food and wine that he steals from the monastery. He learns that the prisoner is a deadly martial artist who is developing a technique called the Lion’s Roar, which he will use to escape his captivity. Little Mute convinces the prisoner to train him. The prisoner's style aims to kill the opponent as fast as possible. A Shaolin nun sees Little Mute practicing these killing techniques. She tells him that martial arts are not for killing; rather, they are for self-development, with self-defense employed only when necessary and with minimal violence. She trains him in the Gliding Snake style, the ideals of which clash with those of the prisoner's killing style. Nevertheless, Little Mute continues to study both styles. Finally the prisoner judges that Little Mute is ready to attempt to pass the test of the Shaolin Wooden Men Alley, a narrow hallway containing thirty-six Shaolin Wooden Men, which are mechanical wooden dummies that attack anyone who enters the hallway. Little Mute successfully fights his way through the Wooden Men Alley. Shortly after Little Mute's triumph, the prisoner perfects his Lion's Roar technique and uses it to escape. He resumes his former role as the leader of the infamous Green Dragon Gang, murdering the men who were responsible for his imprisonment. It is revealed that he was a Shaolin student who went renegade, and was then captured and imprisoned. The head abbot of Shaolin felt responsible for the student's misdeeds, so the abbot blinded himself and left the Shaolin Monastery to live as a hermit, appointing a new abbot in his place. However, he promised to help Shaolin in the future if it was needed. Little Mute and the current head abbot of Shaolin seek out the hermit monk. The escaped prisoner has killed all those responsible for his imprisonment except the monks of Shaolin, and he is now on his way to destroy the monastery. The hermetic monk hands over a book containing the "ultimate" martial arts style, and Little Mute masters this style under the guidance of the current head abbot. When the escaped prisoner comes to destroy Shaolin, Little Mute stands ready to defend it against his former instructor. It is also revealed that the escaped prisoner was the murderer of Little Mute's father. Little Mute reveals that he is not mute, but he swore never to speak until he had found his father's killer. Little Mute counters his opponent's killing techniques, since he knows all of them. He creates multiple openings, but fails to exploit them due to the Shaolin nun's teachings, which said never to kill his opponent. Despite this, he manages to win. He offers to spare his former instructor on the condition that he returns to Shaolin for the remainder of his life. The escaped prisoner says that he is beyond salvation, but that it makes him proud that his student has learned so well. However, he then makes a final attempt to kill Little Mute. He grabs Little Mute from behind and attempts to crush his throat, but Little Mute moves out of the way, and the villain's strike hits his own throat, causing him to kill himself. Deprived of its leader, the Green Dragon Gang flees. Little Mute returns to the Shaolin monastery and is ordained as a monk.The story is set around 1580, in the time of King Akbar. Biramdev  is the king of Medta, a province in Rajasthan. He has two daughters, Meera  and Krishna  and a son, Jaimal . Meera is in deep emotional love with Lord Krishna, so much so that she considers Lord Krishna to be her husband. Akbar  is becoming stronger day by day and hence other small provinces are trying to join against him. Medta, in one such political agreement, decides to join hands with Raja Vikramajit . As a part of this agreement Meera is married  to Vikramajit's son, Rana Bhojraj . But even after getting married her love for Lord Krishna remains the same and she follows her own ideals and way of living which are not very acceptable to Bhojraj and his family. One thing leads to another and one day Meera is declared as an outcast and traitor who failed to play a wife's duties towards her husband, a bride's duties towards her family, and a woman's duties towards society. She is jailed and a public trial is ordered to decide her fate. But Meera is still unshakable and her spirituality keeps her going. She is not even afraid of death. Finally she is given a death sentence and is ordered to drink a cup of venom in front of the public.Father Miguel is a conservative thirty six years old Catholic priest. In the changing Spain of 1966 Miguel’s religious community tries to implement the doctrines given by the Second Vatican Council and adapt to the new realities of the country. Father Miguel opposes any form of religious modernization. He clashes with, Father Luis, a fellow priest of his community who employs more modern tactics of religious instruction. Miguel begins to experience a personal crisis when his repressed sexuality is awaken by a road sign, displaying a beautiful woman wearing a provocative bikini. He begins to be constantly tormented by sexual thoughts. His sexuality is further arouse by Antonia, a beautiful married woman in her thirties, who in her confessions tells father Miguel about her intense sexual encounters with her husband. Antonia’s confessions disturb father Miguel even more. He thinks about sex all the time to the point of impairing his work as a priest. In his disturbed state of mind, father Miguel seeks advice from the more worldly and modern father Luis. Miguel entered religious life at age fourteen and, unlike Father Luis, never had sexual experiences with women. However Miguel feels ashamed asking about sex and he tells Luis to forget the matter before reveling what is tormenting him. Alarmed by Miguel’s behavior, father Alfonso, the leader of the congregation, separate father Miguel from normal services to the community. Antonia is given a new confessor while Miguel is placed in charge of classes at the local school. He begins to give religious instruction to children who are getting ready for their first communion. However, Miguel sexual obsessions continue. Even the sight of one of the young boys playing with a pellet between his tights brings sexual images to Miguel’s mind. To calm down his sexual desires Miguel resorts to penitence and self flagellation punishing his own flesh with a cilice. This weakens his health The boy is Antonia’s son and Miguel sees her again during the child’s first communion. Seeing her with her husband Miguel’s imagines having sex with her husband as she used to describe to him during confession. Miguel visits a bar, makes arrangements to have sex with a prostitute, but back down at the last minute. He is so disturbed by his sexuality he falls sick. Father Francisco sends him to recuperate at his native village where Miguel’s widow mother still lives. Once in his hometown father Miguel begins to recover his strength. While visiting his mother, he walks across town and remembers events from his childhood. His irascible father who beat him merciless and the sexual adventures of his classmates, who went skinny seeping in a river comparing the size of their penises and have sex with farm animals. Back in the city and his religious community things has changed. One of the priests had a girlfriend and has left the order to marry her. Miguel seems initially better but he is still tormented by constant sexual thoughts. He sees again Antonia whose marriage is not going well. She wants to divorce her husband. Miguel visits her at her house. Antonia tells him that all along she has been in love with him. Her confession where aimed to arouse Miguel’s interest. Miguel and Antonia have sex but he is overwhelmed by guilt for what he has done. During Christmas celebrations Miguel, tormented and deeply disturbed, locks himself in his room. He uses garden scissors to castrates himself. Miguel survives his castration. He is sent to a mental institution. Once deemed healthy again he returns to his community were many things have changed. He sees Antonia once again. She is now separated from her husband and would like to rekindle their relationship. Miguel tells her that is too late for that. Finally at ease, Miguel leaves his religious life and his community. He has lost his faith.Widowed and ailing Savitri Choudhury lives a wealthy lifestyle along with her son, Anil, in a palatial mansion in India. She knows that Anil is only waiting for her to die so that he can inherit the wealth and refuses to give him any money. The Diwan convinces Anil to mend his ways, get married, and patch-up with his mom. Shortly thereafter Anil does appear to have mended his ways, gets involved in charity, and even introduces a young woman named Deepali to his mom. Deepali moves in the mansion, looks after Savitri so much so that Savitri decides to make her the sole beneficiary of her estate. What Savitri does not know is that Anil has hired Deepali to act as his fiancée, and that Deepali herself is not who she claims to be, and is actually in love with a local horse-riding peasant, Ajit, whose father was convicted of killing Savitri's husband, and soon Ajit himself will be arrested by the Police for having an affair and then killing a woman named Sita.Amit Srivastav  and Sheela Srivastav  are married to each other and live with their son. One night on their way to a party, they encounter a murder of a press reporter, although Amit could not able to catch a glimpse of the killer. After helping the stabbing victim to the hospital, Amit begins to receive anonymous threats. He also get a torn part of an invitation near the place of the attempted murder which he keeps it assuming this could lead to the killer. The killer captures Amit son and demand the evidence that he has got. The only way to save his child is to unravel the mystery of the killer's identity. Amit and Inspector Jadhav  together find the real killer.The film is based on a 1975 novel  by Park Beom-shin. Ga-hi, a kindergarten teacher, is raped one night while on her way to meet her boyfriend, Young-wu. She later recognises her attacker as Hwang Sa-bin, a boxer, and after seeing him lose a fight begins to develop feelings towards him.Li Bai  is the creator and master of the 'Shi Zi So Hou Shou'  who passes down the skill to his children 'Ching Yang'  and Meng Ping . However, an old friend 'Fang Yun Biao' visits Li Bai and manages to kill him by attacking the skills only weakness and unknowingly, also kills his two other students to whom he believed were Li Bai's children. After his children find out of the murder, Ching Yang sets out to avenge his father. Travelling to Thailand to kill Fang and before that, gives him information of who hired him - the rich benevolent 'Lin Hao' . In the process, he attracts Lin Hao into accepting him as a bodyguard by stealing and retaining in custody gold that belonged to Lin Hao. While suspected by other guards, Lin Hao remains in a difficult situation to find out if Li Bai's siblings are still alive and what Ching Yang is really there for...Kanako is a married woman who receives an invitation from Tomoe, a lesbian lover from her past, to attend a showing of artwork by Isaku, Tomoe's husband. Isaku's paintings have an S&M theme which surprises Kanako. Tomoe persuades Kanako to begin going with her to a class in which she is learning how to behave like a proper female dog. Kanako's husband, Eiichirō, is suspicious about her activities. After hiring a private detective and learning about her perverse hobbies, Eiichirō throws Kanako into a landfill. The film ends with Eiichirō apparently taking his dog for a walk. The camera pans down to show that, despite his apparent objections to her lessons, Eiichirō is in fact walking Kanako, who is on all fours on a dog leash.{{cite book}}Sinbad , sailor and Prince of Baghdad, seeks permission from Prince Kassim to marry Kassim's sister, Princess Farah . But a spell is placed on Kassim by their evil stepmother, Zenobia , which turns him into a baboon  just as he was going to be crowned caliph. Sinbad sets off with Princess Farah to find an old Greek alchemist named Melanthius , who is said to hold the knowledge to help if anyone can. Sinbad and his crew find Melanthius and his daughter Dione , who agree to help them with their quest. Melanthius tells Sinbad that they must travel to the land of Hyperborea where the ancient civilization of the Arimaspi once existed. There they will find a shrine where Kassim can be cured. Zenobia, her son Rafi , and a bronze golem named Minaton , secretly stalk them. On their quest, Sinbad and his crew encounter a trio of ghouls, a giant wasp , a giant walrus, a troglodyte , and reanimated sabre-toothed cat . In the end, Zenobia and her son are slain. Kassim is restored by the magic of Hyperborea and is crowned caliph.Oliviero Rouvigny , a failed writer and an alcoholic, lives in a crumbling mansion with his wife Irina , who is scared of Oliviero's cat, Satan, that used to belong to his late mother. To fight boredom, Oliviero organizes decadent parties for local hippies and humiliates and abuses Irina in front of the guests. After his mistress, a young student, is found murdered, Oliviero becomes the primary suspect. When he finds their maid dead on the premises, he decides to conceal it to avoid further suspicions. With no-one knowing the identity of the murderer, Oliviero's paranoia builds and leads to more abuse of Irina. Then Oliviero's niece Floriana  suddenly arrives for a visit. Irina finds comfort in Floriana's arms and bed, and the two decide to find a way to deal with Oliviero. After Irina kills Oliviero with scissors, Floriana reveals that she has been after the jewelry that Oliviero had stashed in the mansion. Irina humbly gives her the jewelry and the two part ways. However, Irina also had a plan of her own and she turns to Walter , the original murderer. Walter kills Floriana and her boyfriend making it look like an accident. Later, Irina pushes Walter off a cliff to have the jewelry all for herself. When Irina returns to the mansion, she finds the police there. An old woman had filed a complaint for animal cruelty, as she had seen Irina stabbing Satan. Inside the mansion, the police officers notice that the cat seems to be mewing in agony inside a wall. As they tear down the wall, they discover the cat and the dead body of Oliviero inside.Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes shake Japan. Firestorms burn beautiful Japanese cities to the ground. A weather survey group discovers that the Japanese Archipelago is moving towards the Japanese Trench, which if left to continue on its collision course, would bring the whole island of Japan under the sea. Both Japanese and American governments must find a solution to the problem or find refuge for the Japanese in neighboring countries. The movie begins with a brief description of the geological formation of Japan. Later, Toshio Onodera is shown relaxing at a beach near Kumamoto City with Reiko Abe, his wife. However, Mt. Aso erupts, forcing the two to escape the beach. Later, Toshio and Tadokoro have a talk with several American geologists, Warren Brody, Rodger Furren, and Ken Hill in Tokyo about the now fast-moving subduction of both the Pacific and Eurasian plates. Later a massive monster earthquake, with its epicenter on the Sagami Trough, strikes the Kanto Region, killing millions in Tokyo and in other areas, causing tsunamis and floods that kill hundreds of thousands more in Tokyo, Yokohama, and other large cities, and fires burn down Tokyo, with thousands more killed in much of the Kanto Region in the process. Rescue efforts begin. Toshio Onodera hears about the earthquake damage. But before he can do anything to help, a deadly aftershock kills millions of refugees fleeing the city. Toshio later arrives to help a team of Japanese geologists and American military with plans to save the Japanese. However, the plan backfires when a gang of thugs attacks him. Although Toshio manages to settle the ordeal, the leader of the gang, Yusuke Yuki, refuses to give up and later begins harassing Toshio with a Type 99 rifle. He also threatens to murder his family if he refuses to surrender hope for the Japanese. Toshio is about to give in and fight-when two of his American friends save him. Sgt. Hank Thompson begins hogging him with violent punching, while another soldier, Pvt. Gary Hilton throws him into a brick. Finally, Yuki wounds Brody by shooting him in the chest with a Type 26 revolver. Sgt. Thompson knocks the gun out of his hand. Finally, Private Hilton injures Yuki by whacking him in the waist with a broken metal telephone pole fragment. Then he pulls out a Colt M1911 and dumps an entire projectile into Yusuke, which instantly kills him. With the ordeal settled, Toshio takes an American Bell Huey helicopter to Osaka. There, Toshio finds the Prime Minister and tells him about the earthquakes in Numazu and Tokyo. Later, countless hundreds of thousands are killed when Sendai is destroyed by a violent tsunami. Toshio is dumbfounded by the news when it gets printed in the newspaper. Toshio later tells the Prime Minister about the tsunami's destruction on Sendai. He speaks with Shinji Yuki, his colleague. Toshio later is surprised at the news that Japan will sink with more devastation than expected. Shocked, Toshio decides to flee the archipelago. Along the way, he hears more shocking and devastating news. First, thousands, if not millions, are killed when Osaka submerges from a tsunami. Later, Mount Fuji violently erupts. It destroys the countryside. A few weeks later, Toshio is speaking with a small team of Japanese scientists in Kumamoto City near the Kumamoto Prefecture. As they speak, Mount Aso violently bursts, destroying the city and killing millions. It seemingly kills Reiko, who tries to call him via telephone. Concerned about Reiko, Toshio flees Kumamoto with millions of other Japanese refugees. Later, Toshio is chosen to guide a fleet of ships carrying refugees to neighboring Pusan, South Korea by helicopter. However, the plan backfires when a tsunami kills the refugees by sinking each of the ships. Later, it's revealed that Reiko survived the Osaka tsunami. Eventually, another tsunami destroys Hakodate. Later, the Prime Minister decides to flee with his family-but before he can, his daughter's grandfather dies. Later, Tadokoro arrives. The Prime Minister insists that he should join him on the journey. However, Tadokoro refuses, saying that he needs to stay and help the Japanese survivors reach safety. The Prime Minister ends up going without him and uses a Japanese Airline airplane en-route to Beijing, China. The movie closes with the Prime Minister's family taking an express train en-route to Beijing, China. Before the credits, the camera pans to show the that the entire archipelago has sank completely.Tony Petrocelli is a Harvard-educated attorney of Italian heritage who practices in an unidentified part of the American Southwest. He works  at a frenetic pace, not only because he is a zealous advocate for his defendants  but because of the vast distances of western prairie he must cross in order to meet clients, investigate his cases and make court appointments. A big case lands in his lap when he is asked to defend a young, prosperous physician who expects to be charged with the bludgeoning murder of his socialite wife.Chu Liuxiang and Zhongyuan Yidianhong pass by a shipwreck and meet Master Kumei. They also discover that a group of highly-skilled pugilists have been murdered at a gathering in Siming Mountain Manor. The only survivor is a man called Yuan Suifeng, who has become insane after being severely injured. They hear of Bat Island, a mysterious place where anyone can buy anything he desires, as long as he has money. Chu and his friends travel to the island to seek answers. However, they are not the only ones going there: Li Yuhan and his wife, Liu Wuming, are there in search of an extraordinary drug; Jin Lingzhi is there to find her father; a group of imperial guards are there to arrest the Bat Prince.Chu Liuxiang is having drinks with his friend, Monk Wuhua. Gong Nanyan of the Holy Water Palace suddenly appears and accuses Chu of having stolen the palace's Heaven's One Holy Water and committed a series of murders. She agrees to give Chu a month's time to clear his name, or else the mistress of the palace will kill him. Chu's curiosity and eagerness to prove his innocence spur him to investigate the case.Satyam  is a youth leader and Panchayati Board President. He interferes with the ex-President of the board, Rudrayya  from executing his corrupt practices. Satyam and Rudrayya's daughter, Savithri  are in love and plan to get married. So Rudrayya gets Satyam killed with the help of a professional killer . Satyam immediately goes to heaven. He angers the King of Heaven, Indra  while he enjoys the dance by Rambha, Urvasi and Menaka. He sends him straight to hell headed by Yama  and ably assisted by Chitragupta . In hell, he influences the soldiers of death, Yama's army using communist theories and rights of labor, and turns them against their leader-Yama, and Hell shuts down. Yama sends him back to Earth. Yama and Chitragupta visits Earth on a holiday trip and experiences the funny aspects of Humans. Satyam changes his name and teaches Rudrayya a lesson.A resurrected British governess, Ana, returns to an isolated country estate in arid region of Castile, where 15 years earlier she was murdered. During her absence, the children have become men and women and the family have become transformed by Spain's political and cultural changes.Kinder, Marsha. Carlos Saura: the political development of individual consciousness. Film Quarterly. Issue 3 Spring 1979 The family are keen to restore their economic power and see the sale of the family estate as a solution. However, Mamá is reluctant to sell, not wanting to leave her memories and she is the subsequently the intended victim of a murder plot.<ref name2008|firstBentley|titleBoydell & Brewer Ltd}}During the latter part of World War II, Judge Murayama, head of the Japanese military police, uses his position to falsely accuse, capture, imprison and torture women in whom he is interested. Namiji Kikushima, a high-class business woman, is one such lady. Kikushima is accused of using her Ginza jewellery shop to finance an anti-government organization. Judge Murayama has Lady Kikushima arrested, and orders the new recruit Taoka to torture her. Taoka falls in love with Kikushima, at first hating torturing her then growing to enjoy it. After a long series of tortures and humiliation, while the Judge espouses his twisted version of morality, Taoka sacrifices himself to enable Lady Kikushima's escape.<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn136–137}}Lewis, Graham R. "The Films of Koyu Ohara" in Asian Cult Cinema, #27 , p. 25.The real Darna  in the Darna, Kuno? storyline became pregnant. Based on the story, Darna was impregnated by the Japanese anime robots Voltes V and Mazinger Z. Because of the pregnancy someone had to take Darna’s place temporarily as the superheroine until she had given birth. The original Darna lent her magical stone  to Dolphy who will become the male Darna dressed up in the female Darna costume. Dolphy as Darna or more specifically the Darna Pretender or replacement had to fight tikbalangs, aswangs, and other enemies. A female character, Annabel , became the other Darna Kuno in the story. She stole the magical stone from Dolphy after finding out Darna Kuno’s secret identity. Both male and female Darna Pretenders fought and defeated alien invaders. The true Darna returned to retrieve her magical stone carrying her baby who was already wearing a Darna costume.Darna Kuno  movieWhen Tora-san's infatuation with his nephew's school teacher causes family turmoil, he leaves on his travels again. When he returns, he falls in love with the teacher's mother, who has a terminal illness.{{cite web}}Subir  is a professional singer whose career is soaring. He does not plan to marry—until he meets Uma , a sweet village girl who also sings. Subir falls in love with Uma and marries her. He returns to Mumbai with his new bride. Subir continues as a singer and also fosters Uma's singing career. His career falters, however, just as Uma's singing career begins to thrive. Eventually, she becomes more famous than her husband, sparking jealousy from Subir. His pride and jealousy tear the marriage apart. The question becomes whether Subir can overcome his jealousy. The movie reaches a very sensitive situation when the couple separates and Uma has a miscarriage. In what is considered a masterpiece of direction by Mukherjee and scoring by Burman, the couple comes together again in an emotional reunion and they sing together.  Soon after Jaya Bachchan won the Filmfare Best Actress Award for the film, she cut down on work and later took many years off to raise a family. Some have speculated that she focused on personal affairs to avoid the turmoil that her character in Abhimaan experienced.{{Citation needed}} This film was very popular in Sri Lanka more than in India and was screened continuously for two years in the same movie theater, New Olympia, Colombo.In the town of Ho Si, two prominent Chinese clans have a family feud dating back centuries. The ancestors of the malevolent Mong clan and the righteous Chows split up their territories with a property line and instituted laws to keep each faction from crossing those lines. Those brave enough to traverse the line have their legs cut off by the opposing clan. The Chows want to do away with this ridiculous law and establish relations with the Mongs. But the clan leader Mong Fan  wants nothing more than to totally eradicate his hated enemies. He seeks to recruit the best Kung Fu teacher in the land, Wong Yang  to train his family members. Teacher Wong refuses because he knows that Mong Fan’s men will use his teachings only for selfish purposes. Mong Fan comes up with an idea to frame Teacher Wong for murder. He arranges for a hired hand to start a fight with Teacher Wong in the center of town in front of the townsfolk. The man who challenges Teacher Wong is no match for him, and when the guy stumbles backwards after Teacher Wong pushes him away, he ends up falling onto wooden spikes that puncture his flesh. The guy promptly dies in view of everyone, and the townspeople turn against the respected Kung Fu instructor. Rather than face arrest, Teacher Wong flees so he can prove his innocence. An emissary of the Mong clan finds Teacher Wong hiding out, and claims that in exchange for martial arts lessons, Mong Fan will use his political clout to clear his name. Rather than face the alternative, Teacher Wong agrees to educate the Mongs in the ways of Kung Fu. Chow Ping  is a member of the Chow family who risks life and limb to traverse the boundary lines in order to witness Teacher Wong’s agonizing lessons. Then Chow Ping returns to his makeshift training room to practice what he learned from the training sessions. At the Mong palace, Teacher Wong meets Chao Cheh , a beautiful young lady  who takes a liking to him. The careless Chow Ping is captured on the Mong territory and brought to Mong Fan for sentencing before they remove his limbs. Teacher Wong overhears and speaks up on behalf of Chow Ping. Teacher Wong tells Mong Fan he is taking Chow Ping back to the Chow’s territory. Both Teacher Wong and Chow Ping fight their way through the Mong hordes and cross over the border where the Chow clan are happy to welcome them. Teacher Wong is impressed with Chow’s Ping’s desire to learn Kung Fu and offers to teach him the martial arts. One of Mong Fan’s lackeys crosses the border to deliver a message to Teacher Wong. Mong Fan insists there is no hard feelings and begs Teacher Wong to continue training the Mongs. Teacher Wong insists they meet up to discuss the matter. During the negotiations, Mong Fan requests that Teacher Wong teach his men the unbeatable Shaolin Pole Style. Mong Fan firsts tries to bribe him, and then tries to blackmail him. Teacher Wong responds by accusing the Mongs of setting him up on the murder charge. Mong Fan tells him to collect his belongings and leave the Mong property. As Teacher Wong starts to do so, he is assaulted by Mong soldiers and seriously wounded. Chao Cheh hides him and tends to his wounds while the Mongs continue to search for him. Mong Fan then orders his men to murder some monks, so he can use his clout to place the blame on the Chow clan. The police soon round up the Chows and it looks like Mong Fan will have his way. But Teacher Wong vows to tutor Chow Ping in the ways of the Shaolin Pole Style. After some intensive training, Chow Ping comes up to speed. Teacher Wong insists that they pay a visit to the home of Mong Fan and expose the truth and clear the name of the Chow family. However, Mong Fan learns of their upcoming arrival, and plans a trap to eradicate his enemies.Ravi  is a well educated guy but hasn’t got a job yet. Unlike others, he doesn’t find any job big or small…he just takes up anything that comes his way. The movie opens showing him delivering Newspapers at people’s doors – but the job is not permanent. He likes painting and usually makes paintings that depict village life…on being asked by his friend he says city life is very mechanical and he doesn’t like it. When his Maa ji  sees one of his paintings she says that the house in his painting is so much like his dadaji’s house. But alas, his father had to leave it and come to the city because of sarkari naukari. Saying that she leaves for post office to collect her husband’s pension but he stops her. He goes to the Post Office instead. At the Post Office, Om Shivpuri is interviewing people for the post of a Post Man at Sitapur and gets so frustrated talking to people who come for the interview. When Ravi comes to collect his father’s pension, he takes it for granted that he’s one of the interview candidates and starts asking him questions. He asks Ravi for his age and Ravi says : As per certificates, it’s 21 but that’s not correct. Om: How can you say that? Ravi : Because no one knows which year I was born in…Mom says there was a flood in the village the year I was born, as though I wouldn’t have been born had it not been for the floods. She also says, I was born after 2 years since she got married and there was a drought that year. This part is very interesting. Ravi, unaware that he’s being interviewed answers with such carefree attitude. And Om Shivpuri, on the other hand is also pleasantly surprised and enjoys the conversation. At the end of 5 minutes, Om Shivpuri offers him the job and Ravi gladly takes it up. Now that he’s an official postman, he comes home in Postman’s uniform and says : Postman….money order. His mom comes to the door, checks the sheet: Maa : Yeh kaisa moneyorder hai bhai?  Ravi : Bhai nahin maa, beta kaho beta!  Maa tu toh aise ghabra gayi…daakiya bana, koi daaku thodi na bana…aur phir sarkari naukari hai – rehne ke liye kapda makaan muft aur rotiyaan Manoj Kumar se maang lenge.  Maa : Woh kaun hai?  Ravi : Maa tu picturen nahin dekhti. His mother is worried that he’s going for such a job when he’s so well educated. But he is happy to be employed. So he sets out for Sitapur. After getting down from the train, he boards Nattu’s  Tanga bound for Sitapur. Existing Post Master explains his job to him…says his job would also include writing letters for others, reading out their letters etc. apart from just delivering them…because not everybody in the village is literate. Ravi is asked to share his quarters with Raghu Rampuri, who’s a unique-piece item. The moment Ravi enters the house Raghu says : The only two things that are famous from Rampur are – me and chaku.And then introduces him as a poet. When Ravi says that he’s never heard his poems, Raghu says : it’s just that I am ahead of my poems – I became more famous than my poems. Parcel  lives with Raghu. He cleans the house and cooks for him, in return Raghu teaches him how to read and write. Ravi : Kiska ladka hai?  Raghu : Daak khaane ka . He lives at the post office, noone knows who his parents are but he loves reading. Maybe he’ll also become a Postman like you when he grows up.On his first day at work, he goes to the temple in the morning to deliver Panditji’s letter and sees Mohini  there. There’s an old lady in the village, whose son, Rasulla, had joined the Army and gone away… and who never returned back. She’s gone insane waiting to hear from him. She sits guarding a mango tree from other kids in the village. She’s been dying to hear from her son for years and when Ravi comes there and chases the little boys troubling her away, she sees the letters on the carrier of Ravi’s cycle and takes them away saying all those are her son’s letters. He has to coax her into giving those letters back to him. And then he pulls out a blank paper from the stack of letters and recites : Meri pyaari ammi….pretending to read the content from a letter. And at the end he asks her : Nani, what’s your son’s name? And after she says the name, he ends the letter saying : Tera beta Rasulla.Then he goes about delivering letters…he goes to a house and knocks, Mohini opens the door and is delighted to see the Postman…he hands over a letter - Ravi : I am new here, had I known this letter was for you, I would have given it at the temple itself. Mohini : You are new, that’s why I didn’t ask you if there was any letter for me when I saw you in the temple. But the letter is not for her, somebody showed him the wrong house and she’s very disappointed. She, however, guides him to the correct address, Choudhary’s house. His daughter, Chhutki  opens the door and talks non-stop that her father is not home with lots of if-else conditions. Finally when she’s done, he gives her the letter and leaves. Chhutki’s wedding has been fixed and the letter is from her sasural, she’s very excited to know what’s written in it…so she comes to call Mohini so that they both could go somewhere and read the letter. She takes permission from Mohini’s maa  and they both leave with an excuse of fetching water from the well.She opens the letter, puts the envelope behind on a stone wall surrounding the well and starts reading the letter. But she can’t read properly and can’t figure out what’s written in it…she asks Mohini for help but she can’t read either. She says she would have gone and joined the army if she knew how to read and write. When they see people coming towards them, she tries to collect the envelope and leave from there, but in a hurry, she misses it and the envelope goes flying down into the well. There’s a beautiful song here – Allah megh de. The letter finally reaches the Chaudhary and he reads it but is perplexed thinking how the Daakiya could have brought the letter without an envelope, which means no address. Chhutki lies to him saying that the letter was delivered without the envelope. And as though her saying so would help she says : Good that the kept the envelope. Imagine if he had to keep the letter and just give the envelope to us. We would never get to know what’s in the letter. When Daakiya comes the following morning, Chaudhary is still perplexed wondering about the missing envelope and he asks him if he has come to distribute just the envelopes today. Now, it’s Ravi’s turn to get confused. He’s accused of taking the envelope away.  Finally Mohini comes to his rescues and spills the truth to Chaudhary. Next, he goes searching for Aarti Sharma to give Money order….when he reaches her house, he sees her busy making quilts. She stops her work to chat with him for a while and says that it’s her husband’s pension. Aazadi ke jung mein saheed hue the - She claims to be an army’s widow and yet she puts sindoor. He’s kind of confused. And finding his puzzled expression very natural, she goes on to explain that she’s Amar suhagan and all the others in the village call her Suhagi didi. She says she waits for this day not because she would get money but for her husband…she feels connected to him in some way and when she puts sindoor she feels that he’s still somewhere around. Ravi takes her hand, and takes her thumb impression on the paper before giving her the Pension amount. But she doesn’t keep the money…she sends it for the welfare of other armies who are fighting day and night, protecting the country and ensuring everybody’s safety. At the end he realizes that she’s educated and can converse fluently in English as well. He leaves feeling embarrassed for taking her thumb impression instead of asking her to sign. Ravi sits under a Peepal tree in front of Mohini’s house and sorts his letters. And she awaits a letter herself quite desperately so keeps asking him if there’s a letter for her. Ravi replies to her and continues with his work. Mohini  : Do you want some water? Ravi  : Yes, a glass of water, please. Mohini : What will a glass of water do, I will have to get a bucket full of water for you. And then she asks him if he would want some water…to this he replies - Ravi : Yes, but not in a bucket. She goes towards the house and then stops half way through to ask if buttermilk would do. He nods. And she comes with a glass of buttermilk for him. Mohini : if I get any letters, do give it to me. Ravi : Who else would I give it to? Mohini: Oh I mean, don't give it to Maa. Ravi : Once bitten twice shy, I would never make that mistake again. I have learnt a lot from Chaudhary saab’s letter episode . She behaves pretty mysterious asking about letters so he asks her if she gets letters often. Mohini : No, but just in case if I get any letters. Ravi : You wait so much for them, you must have got them earlier too. Mohini : No, not yet, but… Ravi : Who is it that you expect to hear from so much? Mohini :  I am supposed to get a letter form my Mamaji. And goes away saying she has to give buttermilk to her cow. Ravi : Buttermilk? To cow? Mohini : I mean water…don’t know what I am saying today Ravi  : You get so confused, has it ever happened that you kept your food plate in front of the cow and started eating the grass yourself? She laughs and goes away. Ravi sings Daakiya daak laaya as he goes about his work. He comes home from work very hungry and asks Parcel for food. Raghu gives him water and starts asking about Mohini. The entire village is talking about the two of them now. Ravi confides that he likes Mohini but has no idea how she feels for him. Just then Parcel comes with a sheet of paper and asks Raghu if it’s ok…Raghu after going through it approves of it and asks Parcel to post it. Ravi is confused as to what they both are up to. Raghu explains to him that nobody ever wrote him a letter in his life, so he’s making Parcel write one and post it. He would reply to it on receiving it. One day on his way back home, Ravi sees Mohini sitting on a tree branch and staring.He asks her what she’s looking at and she says she was thinking about the armies who were there few months ago for training. She would sit there and look at them for hours together. Mohini : This area used to be so full of armies some time back and now… Ravi : And now, let’s both go and do a parade. Mohini : Who will distribute your letters then? Ravi : We could ask anybody to do that…what’s the name of that liar friend of yours? Chhutki? Let her go around giving the letters and her father will go behind her with the envelopes She asks him why he didn’t come and sit under the Peepal tree today to sort his letters and mentions she was actually waiting for him the whole day. Ravi : You were waiting for me? or for your mamaji’s letter? Mohini : Had made daliya today, you come everyday so had kept some for you too. Ravi : Is it still there or did you give it to your cow? Mohini : I have kept some for you. Ravi : Ok then, I have to go to Suhagi didi’s house now, I’ll come over after that . Suhagi has made some quilts and blankets and she gives them to Ravi to send them across to some regiment. Ravi comes to Mohini’s place to have daliya. He barely sits down when Mohini’s cow breaks free and runs away with the rope entangled with Ravi’s cycle. Mohini’s cow running away with Ravi’s cycle – this becomes such a big breaking news and the hottest gossip in the village. Ravi goes behind the cow and finally brings both the cow and cycle home. But he gets hurt in the process. So Mohini tends to his wounds. She notices Suhagi’s parcel and asks Ravi about it. Him : She has sent it for the armies. Her : What if I want to send a parcel to somebody? Him : You should have his name and regiment address and it will reach him. But…why? You know any fauji? Her : No, I was just asking. Rekha makes a special appearance in this dance – Surme wale sainyaan hamaro ji. After a few days, she meets him by that tree again and takes his measurements for a sweater. He’s very happy and is now sure that she likes him too. Another day she complains that he never brings a letter for her and then he promises to bring a letter for her the following day. He goes home that night and sits awake the whole night writing a letter to her – putting down his feelings on paper. When he meets her, he gives her the letter and she’s extremely delighted. Then she shows him the sweater she has knit and asks him to try it. He’s happily trying it out when she looks at the letter and says – now that he has written to me and I have his address, I can send the sweater too. He is shocked to find out that it’s not for him. All his dreams are shattered and he’s heart is broken… She then tells him her story – She had met Ravi , an army officer when his battalion was training near her village, fallen in love with him and had also quietly married him in a temple. But he had to go almost immediately after that and she has never heard of him since. However, she’s sure he’ll return back to her some day. Now that he knows she’s already married, he decides to help her locate Ravi . Heartbroken as he is, he cannot help himself from singing a song – Ladkhadane do mujhe. He goes to the town the following morning searching for Ravi  but with no luck and finally comes back to Sitapur again. He meets Rasulla’s mother at the station, she gives him a letter and asks him to read it. It has the news of Rasullah’s death and the letter is dated ten years back. The very same day he receives a telegram saying that the Army Officer he was looking for has been killed in the war. With a heavy heart he goes to give the news to Mohini but there’s a huge crowd gathered there. Mohini tells him that Rasulla’s mother died of sorrow because somebody told her that her son is dead. Ravi feels guilty and tells her that he was the one who had read the letter out to her. At this she tells him he should have lied and hidden the truth from her. At least a lie would have saved her life. Everybody in the village knew of Rasulla’s death but nobody had dared to break the news to her because they were scared she would die of shock. Now, Ravi  cannot bring himself to tell Mohini of Ravi’s  death. And he goes back home with a heavier heart. He’s in a dilemma as to whether to tell Mohini the truth or to hide it from her. Mohini, on the other hand, now aware that the war has come to an end starts waiting all the more eagerly for Ravi  – Ghungta gira hai. What will Ravi do now? Will he ever be able to tell Mohini the truth? Will she ever come to know that he was once in love with her? Will she misunderstand his intentions? Mohini’s Maa is pressurizing her to get married…how long will she be able to postpone it? Will she be able to voice out and explain about her marriage with Ravi ? Is Ravi  really dead? Or Ravi  has something else in mind?Between Spoleto and Cerveteri, someone kills young couples, inspiring himself to the frescos of a grave etrusca in which the demon Tuchulca appears.The path of love, they say, never runs smooth, especially a path with its beginning in a prison. Joshila is the saga of such a love story which blossomed, within the shadow of the prison walls, between a convict and a poetess. A love that could not reach consummation until it was tested by blood and fire and went through a series of hair-raising exciting adventures. Amar  a young man was convicted to long-term imprisonment for a murder he did not commit, but was pinned on him by the evidence of the very witness whose life and honour he had tried to save. Nobody could see his innocence, besides Shalini . A beautiful young poetess, sweet and innocent as a flower, one who meets the 'Joshila' Amar in the grim shadows of the prison-walls. Shalini is amazed to learn about Amar's past and his innocence. Fate separates Amar from Shalini when he comes out of jail. He goes straight home to his family, and is shocked to see their desperate condition, especially that of his mother who is struggling through life by taking orders of stitching clothes for people around. His sister on the other hand had to take up dancing in a night-club. Amar's blood boils to see their pitiable condition and he rushes for the first job he can get. His new bosses wife turns out to be Sapna , the same girl who loved Amar in the past. A love which was the victim of circumstances and destiny. Seeing her, Amar goes away quietly, not willing to have his past raked up before this beautiful young woman again. Seeking solace and in an attempt to forget his past, he goes to a night club. Here Amar meets Madan Lal Dogra , an old acquaintance from his days in jail. Dogra seems obviously wealthy now and he promises to take Amar along on a strange assignment. Impersonating Dogra, Amar reaches the huge mountain estates of Thakur Sahib , a wealthy landowner who is confined to life in a wheel-chair, due to a serious accident that crippled him. Here Amar meets Madhu Thakur, the voluptuous and intensely attractive young wife of the crippled Thakur Sahib. Madhu casts a strange spell over Amar and draws him irresistibly into the fascinating web of her charms. Amar finds Madhu overwhelming. He also meets her paramour Kundan , who along with Madhu, has woven a plot to murder Thakur Sahib. As Amar is blackmailed and dragged into a foul murder plan to kill the man who has given him a new lease of life, our Joshila gets a big shock. He comes face to face with Shalini in this huge place, and he is trapped for his love of Shalini and fear for the safety of his family. Amar has no other way out but to follow the evil plan. 'Joshila' takes the audience on a veritable safari of scenic beauty, fiesta of songs and dances, and a romance as fresh as a dew kissed bud of rose.This folktale story is set in a village where Roopa , lives with her father, the village priest. As a young child, Roopa's right cheek was burned by a pot of oil, leaving part of her face disfigured. Henceforth, Roopa keeps her right cheek hidden under the cover of her Sari. Despite the terrible accident, Roopa remains religious and goes to the village Hindu temple daily, singing hymns and devotional songs. The protagonist Rajeev , is a dashing engineer who arrives in the village to oversee the construction of a major dam. He suffers from a fear of ugliness. He hears Roopa's religious singing and meets her, but somehow doesn't pay attention to her disfigured side, and falls in love with her. He then asks her father permission to marry her. After the wedding, he discovers the truth, and thinks that he was cheated and forced to marry someone else, at which point he disowns Roopa and drives her out of the house. Roopa decides to meet him at night, using a veil to hide the charred side of her face. Rajeev spends his days hating his wife, and his nights loving his mistress, not knowing they are both the same woman - Roopa. During one of their nights together, they make love and Roopa gets pregnant. When Rajeev finds out that his wife is pregnant, he suspects her of infidelity and still refuses to believe this his "mistress" and wife are one and the same. In the movie's climax, a terrible storm ravages the village, breaking open the dam which Rajeev had come to build. In the swirling waters of the flood, Rajeev realises how shallow he had been, and saves Roopa from drowning.Nami Matsushima  is set up by her boyfriend, a crooked police detective named Sugimi  to win favor with the Yakuza. She is raped by several drug dealers. She makes a failed attempt to stab Sugimi on the steps of the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Headquarters. She is sentenced to do hard time in a women's prison. Matsushima is given the number 701. The prison is run by sadistic and horny male guards. The prisoners are forced to walk up and down a stair-like contraption naked with lecherous male guards watching from below. While in prison she meets inmates like Yuki Kida  who was committed for fraud and theft, Otsuka , jailed for burglary and extortion, and Katagiri  who has been impounded for arson and illegally disposing of a body. On the outside, Sugimi and the Japanese mafia orchestrate a plan in which Matsushima will succumb to an "accidental" death in prison. They enlist the help of Katagiri, pulling on her ties to both Sugimi and the mafia, and quickly set their plan in motion. Matsushima is attacked in the shower but defends herself, wounding the attacker. She is punished by being held bound by ropes in solitary confinement. A group of trustees including Katagiri torments her. One of them torments her by pouring hot soup on her. Matsushima is able to trip the trustee and make her spill the vat of hot soup over herself, causing horrible burns. Matsushima is forced to dig dirt holes for two days and nights straight. She kills a woman who attempts to attack her during this digging by tripping her and breaking her neck. Matsushima is hung and tied from the ceiling while being beaten by her fellow prisoners. After a riot, Matsushima escapes and kills all the Yakuza and Sugimi with a dagger. The film ends with Matsushima walking alone back in prison.Prince Yeonsan-gun lusts after Yahwa, whose husband Yun Pil-u was executed after being branded a traitor. Yahwa chooses to take her own life in order to be reunited with Pil-u, but before she dies she asks her cat to take revenge for them. Afterwards, the bodies of court ladies and patrol guards are found dead in the palace every morning, and the ghosts of Yahwa and Pil-u are seen accompanied by the mewing of a cat. Kim Chung-won, Pil-u's friend and head of the guardsmen, uses the power of a Buddhist priest to get rid of the ghosts and restore peace to the nation.Kishanlal , a chauffeur, takes the blame for a fatal hit-and-run accident committed by his mob boss employer, Robert , on the assurance that his family's income will be tripled and their welfare looked after. He returns from prison to find his wife Bharati  suffering from tuberculosis and his three sons starving. Seeking help from Robert for the sake of his family, he is ridiculed, humiliated and repudiated, until he turns on Robert and tries to kill him. Making his escape, Kishanlal inadvertently takes a car containing a shipment of gold bullion. Robert's goons give chase. Kishanlal goes home to rescue his family &mdash; only to find his wife's suicide note. Unknown to him, she fails and is struck blind. He leaves his sons in a public park  while he draws off the pursuing goons. In the car chase that follows he crashes, is thrown clear of the wreck, and discovers the gold. But by the time he returns to the park with his riches, his three children have vanished. Amar, the oldest, has been adopted by a Hindu policeman; a Muslim tailor adopts the youngest and names him Akbar; and a Catholic priest, finding the middle son asleep on the steps of his church, fosters him and names him Anthony. In revenge, Kishanlal kidnaps Robert's daughter Jenny and raises her as his niece, using the gold to destroy Robert's business and set himself up as mob boss instead. Amar  becomes a policeman; Akbar  becomes a singer; the middle brother, Anthony , becomes a likable, socially conscious scamp who runs quasi-legal operations and makes God his 'partner' by donating half his income to charity. The three meet when they donate blood for an accident victim, unaware that they are related &mdash; or that the recipient is their biological mother Bharati. Their lives become entangled in an incredible web of coincidences and furious action sequences &mdash; interspersed with songs &mdash; when Amar's adopted father is seriously wounded and Anthony falls in love with Jenny, Robert's long-lost daughter. Because of it his adoptive father, the priest, is murdered. In their pursuit of justice their paths cross again until, combining efforts, the brothers discover both the culprit and their mutual heritage. In addition to the ongoing feud between Robert and Kishanlal, each son meets and courts &mdash; with greater or lesser difficulty &mdash; their love interests. When the grieving mother regains her sight at a Diwali festival in honor of Sai Baba, one by one the family is re-united and Robert, who caused their suffering, is finally imprisoned.During the Japanese occupation, a Korean lawyer devotes his work to rural development, believing this is the only way to preserve Korean identity. Interpreting these actions as anti-Japanese, the Japanese authorities imprison the lawyer for five years. When he is released, he finds his wife continuing his work.Synopsis from {{cite web}}A film biography of An Jung-geun, a Korean independence activist who assassinated Itō Hirobumi, the first Prime Minister of Japan.Synopsis based on {{cite web}}Lady Divine ([[Divine  is the owner and operator of a show called The Cavalcade of Perversion, a free exhibit of various perversions and fetish acts and obscenities such as the "Puke Eater". The show is free, although the various performers must persuade and even physically drag reluctant passers-by to attend. As a finale to every show, Lady Divine comes in and robs the patrons at gunpoint. This arrangement seems successful to Lady Divine's lover, Mr. David , until Lady Divine becomes bored with the routine, and decides to murder the patrons rather than merely robbing them. After escaping the murder scene, she comes home to her prostitute daughter, Cookie , and her new boyfriend, Steve , a member of the Weather Underground. Lady Divine receives a call from Edith , proprietor of the local bar, who informs Lady Divine that Mr. David had been at her bar with another woman . Divine heads there to catch them, but is raped on the way by two glue-sniffers. While contemplating these events the Infant of Prague appears and leads her to a church. Making her way uncertainly into the church, Lady Divine prays, but is then approached and seduced by a strange young woman . They have a sexual encounter in the church pew, the woman inserting a rosary into Lady Divine's rectum while describing the Stations of the Cross. Now lesbian lovers, Lady Divine and Mink go to Edith's bar with the intent to kill Mr. David and his mistress, but they are too late; David and Bonnie, his lover,  have left. Mr. David returns to Cookie's house to kill Divine, but finds only Cookie and fellow performer Rick there. An argument ensues and Bonnie accidentally kills Cookie. They tie up Rick and hide Cookie's corpse just before Divine and Mink return. When Bonnie tries to shoot Lady Divine, Divine attacks and kills her with a knife. She then turns on Mr. David and eviscerates him as well, devouring his internal organs and becoming more frenzied. Rick appears and surprises Mink, who shoots him. In a fit of anger, Divine accuses Mink of betraying her and stabs Mink. Divine becomes even more crazed upon finding her daughter's body hidden behind the couch. Just after collapsing, exhausted from the ordeal, a giant lobster  enters and rapes Lady Divine. In the aftermath , she destroys a car, then runs around Baltimore, insane, bloody, and wearing a mink coat, trying to kill anyone she can get at. The film ends with the appearance of the National Guard, who surround Lady Divine on the street and shoot her down, accompanied by the sound of Kate Smith singing "God Bless America".Mistakenly believing that his brother-in-law's boss is planning to commit suicide, Tora-san attempts to prevent him.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/18910|title2010-01-20|languageKinema Junpo}}{{cite web}}Vince Majestyk  is a former U. S. Army Ranger instructor and Vietnam War veteran who now owns a remote watermelon farm in rural Colorado. He needs to harvest his crop in order to keep the farm financially solvent. A small-time hoodlum, Bobby Kopas , attempts to coerce Majestyk into a protection racket of using unskilled drunks to harvest his watermelon crop. Majestyk runs Kopas off  and instead hires skilled Mexican migrant workers, including Nancy Chavez , with whom Majestyk begins a relationship. Kopas brings assault charges against him, however, causing Majestyk to be arrested and taken to the local jail. There he meets Frank Renda , a notorious mob hit man being transferred to a higher-security prison. Renda's men try to break him out of police custody during a prisoner movement in a bus. In the escape attempt, Majestyk drives off in the bus with Renda still in handcuffs. Majestyk plans on trading Renda back to the police so that he can finish his harvest. Renda offers a fortune  for his freedom but Majestyk just wants to get back to his melons. With the help of his lawyer girlfriend Wiley , Renda escapes from Majestyk. He meets up with his right-hand man Lundy and plans his revenge on Majestyk. The violent Renda is advised to fly to Mexico to elude a police dragnet looking for him, but he is blinded by his desire for revenge. He tells his men to find the "melon picker" so that he can have the satisfaction of killing him personally. Rather than being afraid, Majestyk turns the tables. He sets a trap at Renda's cabin hideout. Renda betrays his own men, leading to Lundy's death and to Kopas being captured, prior to a final showdown between Majestyk and Renda.Jwala Prasad is to marry the girl of his dreams. On the day of the marriage, she is dressed all in red, as is the tradition in India. Just before the wedding she slips off to meet her real lover. When Jwala finds out, he is so enraged that he turns into a monster and kills both the to-be bride and her male friend. The saga does not end here, and this monster continues to terrorize the region, first abducting brides dressed in red just before the wedding procession stops at a Mandir . When a to-be groom finally confronts and kills the monster, it leaves the body of Jwala Prasad and possesses the body of its killer. And the terror continues. Years later another male has now killed this creature, and the monster has re-possessed its body, and it is again on the rampage. The police and men of this region do confront this creature, but find out it is invincible, a bhoot comes after every marriage and a song chalo re doli utthao khaar piya milan ki raat aayi bullets cannot harm it, nor can physical strength of fully grown men overpower it. The suspense mounts as one by one the brides are killed and no one seems to have a clue, and everybody seems to be suspect, including the village Poojari, the Thakur, his son, and several other people. Even if they do manage to kill this creature, it will simply re-possess the body of another male, and continue on its gruesome task. This was a multi star box office hit of 1979, all of the songs of this film became hits. Censorship banned this movie since 1976 but later released it with an A-certificate.In the late 18th century, two newlyweds move into the stately mansion of the husband, Charles Fengriffen . The bride, Catherine Fengriffen , falls victim to a curse placed by a wronged servant on the Fengriffen family and its descendants.Popular Indian leading man Amitabh Bachchan stars in HERA PHERI, a campy Bollywood musical melodrama about faded friendships and family secrets. Best friends Vijay  and Ajay  sever their relationship when Vijay discovers that his father's murderer may be Ajay's own long-lost father, setting into motion a bloody saga of familial revenge that involves a maniacally insane mother and a motley assortment of badly disguised villains. The film starts with a fight between Vijay and Ajay in an Irani hotel.Later it comes to know that they both are con men and the fight was their trick for money.During his travels, Tora-san meets Ikenouchi, a drunken old man whom he assumes is poor and homeless. Tora-san takes the old man home. When he wakes up, Ikenouchi begins ordering Tora-san's family around in such an authoritarian manner that no one can muster the courage to suggest he leave. On the road again, Tora-san meets Botan, a geisha who has lost her life savings to a dishonest customer. He and his family's neighbor are determined to help her out. It later turns out that Ikenouchi is a famous artist and a drawing he has made for Tora-san is worth ¥70,000.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/18537 |title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 17: Tora-san's Sunrise and Sunset  |date2010-01-18|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305548|title2010-01-18|publisher=British Film Institute}}An old miller is listening to strange sounds coming from the woods. While he sleeps a millstone suddenly stops working and a strange human-like creature with black hands and long teeth and nails bites his neck. After the opening scene the film turns to a romance between a poor young man Strahinja  and a beautiful girl Radojka . Radojka is the daughter of landowner Živan  who refuses to allow her to marry Strahinja. Disappointed, Strahinja leaves his village and goes to Zarožje. He meets peasants discussing about the cursed mill and accepts their offer to become the new miller. He spends the night in the mill and survives the attack of the creature, finding out its name - Sava Savanović. The villagers visit the oldest woman in the neighbouring village and ask her if there is a grave of somemone called Sava Savanović somewhere nearby. After finding the place where his body is buried, they nail down a stake through the coffin and a butterfly flies out of it. The peasants help Strahinja to take Radojka from her home and take her to Zarožje. During the night, while the villagers are preparing the wedding, Strahinja sneaks into his future wife's room while she is asleep. As he undresses her, he discovers a bloody hole under her breasts. Radojka opens her eyes and transforms into a disgusting hairy creature and manages to climb onto Strahinja's neck while he is trying to run away. She leads him away to the grave where he manages to take the stake out of the coffin and nail her body. The film ends with Strahija's body lying motionlessly on the ground and the butterfly in his hair moving its wings.Inocencia has left her pueblo to find a job at Mexico City. In Mexico City, Inocencia stumbles herself with two men, a chicken delivery man and a postman who both fight for her love. The postman finds a babysitting job for Inocencia. Inocencia has to take care of Bebito, who is more grown up then she expected. Bebito tries to knock off Inocencia's prentendants.The main story concerns an innocent young man, Nur-e-Din , who comes to fall in love with a slave girl, Zumurrud , who selected him as her master. After a foolish error of his causes her to be abducted, he travels in search of her. Meanwhile Zumurrud manages to escape and, disguised as a man, comes to a far-away kingdom where she becomes king. Various other travellers who recount their own tragic and romantic experiences include stories of a young man who becomes enraptured by a mysterious woman on his wedding day, and a man who is determined to free a woman from a demon . Interwoven are Nur-e-Din's continuous search for Zumurrud and his&nbsp;– mostly erotic&nbsp;– adventures. In the end he arrives at the far-away kingdom and is finally reunited with Zumurrud. The tales contain abundant nudity, sex, and slapstick humor.Rabbi Jacob  is one of the most loved rabbis of New York. One day, the French side of his family, the Schmolls, invite him to celebrate the bar mitzvah of the young David. Rabbi Jacob boards a plane to leave America for his birthland of France after more than 30 years of American life. His young friend Rabbi Samuel comes with him. In Normandy, the rich businessman Victor Pivert  is also on his way; his daughter  will be married the next day. Pivert is a dreadful man: bad-tempered, rude and a bigot, with a well-honed racism against blacks, Jews, and pretty much all foreigners. He and his driver, Salomon , have a car accident in which Pivert's car  flips upside-down into a lake. When Salomon, who is Jewish, refuses to help because Shabbat has just begun, Pivert fires him, much to Salomon's content. Arab revolutionist leader Mohamed Larbi Slimane  is kidnapped by killers who are working for his country's government. The team, led by Colonel Farès, takes him by night to an empty bubble gum factory... the same place where Victor Pivert goes to find assistance. Pivert involuntarily helps Slimane to flee, leaving two killers' corpses behind them. The police, alerted by Salomon, find the bodies and accuse Pivert of the crime. The next day, Slimane forces Pivert to go to Orly airport to catch a plane to Slimane's country . However, they are followed by a number of people: the jealous Germaine, Pivert's wife, who thinks her husband is going to leave her for another woman; Farès and the killers; and the police commissioner Andréani , a zealous and overly suspicious cop who imagines that Pivert is the new Al Capone. Trying to conceal his and Pivert's identities, Slimane attacks two rabbis in the toilets, stealing their clothes and shaving their beards and their payot. The disguises are perfect, and they are mistaken for Rabbi Jacob and Rabbi Samuel by the Schmoll family. The only one who recognizes Pivert  behind the disguise is Salomon, his former driver, who just happens to be a Schmoll nephew. But Pivert and Slimane are able to keep their identity secret and even manage to hold a sermon in Hebrew, thanks to the polylingual Slimane . After a few misunderstandings, Commissioner Andréani and his two inspectors are mistaken by the Jews for terrorists, attempting to kill Rabbi Jacob. The real Rabbi Jacob arrives at Orly, where no one is waiting for him any more. He is mistaken for Victor Pivert by the police, then by Farès and his killers . There is a chaotic, but sweeping happy ending: *the revolution is a success, and Slimane becomes President of the Republic *Pivert's daughter falls in love with Slimane and escapes her dull fiance near the altar to go with him *Pivert learns tolerance towards other religions and cultures, and also Salomon and Slimane make peace with their respective Arab and Jewish colleagues *the Schmolls finally find the real Rabbi Jacob *the Piverts and the Schmolls go together feasting and celebratingThe film is a tragedy based on a tawaif  'Anjuman' played by Rani, who is a "tawaiif" who flirts with the emotions of a wealthy Santosh and later falls in love with his younger brother played by Waheed. In order to save his older brother's marriage Waheed's character decides to frequent Anjuman's "kotha" in an "exchange" demanded by Anjuman, although being in love with another girl . Sabiha plays the role of wife of the older brother's character in the film, and eventually implores Anjuman to forsake her own love so that Waheed's Character can live happily. At the end, Anjuman  has to face a fate worse than death, where she is invited to sing at the wedding of her Love. Lovelorn and disappointed Anjuman offers a woeful song, as she has swallowed poison, and dies at the feet of her love.Boxer From Shantung follows Ma Yongzhen and Xiao Jiangbei. Ma and Xiao are manual laborers busting their tails in Shanghai at the beginning of the film, and Ma's first encounter with the crime lord Tan Si starts him off on the underworld influence ladder. Step by step, he earns the respect of everyone he meets, either with his strength of character or by beating them up. When he gets a really big break by defeating a Russian strongman, he indulges himself in a fancy cigarette holder, much like the one Tan Si uses. However, he is mindful of his humble beginnings, and of the fact that times are still tough for many in Shanghai. He shares his good fortune with his old fellow wage slaves, and when they assist him in his various extralegal activities, he lectures them on the futility of trying to extort money from people who simply don't have any to spare.  The tea house that Ma and his underlings frequent employs a singer, Jin Lingzi, and her uncle, who provides the music. Ms. Jin's hopes that Ma's arrival will mark a turn for the better for conditions in the crime-plagued city are dashed when she ascertains that he isn't different enough from the other bosses she's seen rise and fall.Okoma is a female yakuza and gambler who returns to her hometown after a two year absence. She finds that her old boss has been killed and a rival gang is taking over her own gang's territory. Okoma forms her own gang to seek vengeance. The rival gang captures and tortures her, but she escapes. In the ensuing gang war, the rival gang, and most of her old gang are wiped out. Okoma leaves again, alone in her victory.<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn353}}The story involves the power struggles and sexual intrigues of a group of good-looking nuns at the Sant Arcangelo Convent and in particular the machinations of Sister Julia  as she attempts, by any means possible, to succeed to the position of the dying Mother Superior. The nuns struggle with their vows of celibacy, some inclining to lesbianism whilst others invite male lovers secretly into their cells. Meanwhile a corrupt Church hopes to benefit from an aristocratic donation to the Convent, before launching an inquisition into the lubricious and corrupt activities of the inmates of the Convent. There then follow graphic scenes of torture as miscreant nuns are stripped naked and tortured with a variety of devices in order to elicit a confession of their misdemanours. The film ends with a resonant condemnation of the power hungry and corrupt Church by the Sister Julia after she has been found guilty and compelled to take poison to end her life. The story is based on true events at the Convent of Sant Arcangelo di Baiano at Naples in the 16th century.Like many southern Europeans of the period , Nino Garofalo  is a migrant "guest worker" from Ciociaria, working as a waiter in Switzerland. He loses his work permit when he is caught urinating in public, so he begins to lead a clandestine life in Switzerland. At first he is supported by Elena, a Greek woman. Then he befriends an Italian industrialist, relocated to Switzerland because of financial problems. The industrialist takes him under his wing, only to commit suicide when he squanders his last savings. Nino is constrained to find shelter with a group of clandestine Neapolitans living in a chicken coop, together with the same chickens they tend to in order to survive. Captivated by the idyllic vision of a group of young blonde, Swiss youths, he decides to dye his hair and pass himself off as a local. In a bar, when rooting for the Italian national football team during its transmission, he is found out after celebrating a goal scored by Fabio Capello. He is arrested and deported. He embarks on a train and finds himself in a cabin filled with returning Italian guest workers. Amid the songs of "sun" and "sea", he is seen having second thoughts. He gets off at the first stop: better life as an illegal immigrant than a life of misery.The film portrays the life of "Adiyar" community, a tribe whose ways of life belongs to centuries ago. They live in the Wayanad hills in the deep Kerala forests. The film envelopes the passions, superstitions, religious practices, customs, and the servility and exploitation the tribal people endure. The film is narrated through the observations of an outsider.Immacolata  is a peasant girl and mistress of the count, but when he turns his attentions back to his wife he has Immacolata inturned into a mental asyulm. 'La Vacanza' is her one-month experimental leave from the institution. She is rejected by her family and subsequently finds new friends in the form of gypsies and an Englishman. But their happiness is blighted by criminal actions and a fight for freedom.La vacanza Tinto Brass collection. Retrieved on 26 August 2010Eduardo, a well off bank manager in his forties, is a sophisticated closeted homosexual. He keeps his sexual life a secret, but he uses his social and economic position to win over young men. In one of his regular cruising sessions in the University area, Eduardo meets Miguel, an attractive young man from a humble background and falls in love with him. Then Eduardo starts his usual plan to approach men. Through Nes, a gay man who lives in Miguel's neighborhood, Eduardo finds out Miguel's address and offers him a job in the company run by his friend Raul. Raul and Eduardo had a relationship in the past and Raul is still secretly in love with Eduardo. With the excuse of helping him typing a book Eduardo takes Miguel to his apartment every afternoon. To gain his friendship Eduardo buys him a motorcycle. Miguel, however is heterosexual. He has a steady girlfriend, Carmen, but he is also entangled in a sexual affair with Rosa, an older married neighbor who he visits with excuse of helping her with plumbing problems in her house. When Eduardo tells his felling to his new friend, Miguel rejects him. Eduardo returns to his solitary life looking for fleeting pleasures with young men in cruising spots:cinemas, parks and public toilets. He rejects the offer of his friend Raul to be involved in the emerging gay movement. Then Eduardo's aged mother becomes terminally ill and in her deathbed, she confesses that she had known he was gay since he was a teenager. She urges him not to be alone. In one of his escapes cruising in the park Eduardo meets Nes again. Nes and members of his gang go to Eduardo's apartment rob him and beat him him. When Miguel finds out what had happened, he worries about Eduardo and beats Nes in revenge. As a result, Eduardo and Miguel resume their friendship, this time without they accept each other and Eduardo respects that Miguel is straight. Miguel introduces his girlfriend Carmen to Eduardo and the trio establish a close relationship. For Eduardo the company of the young couple fills the void of a family life and loneliness. The close friendship between Eduardo and the couple formed by Miguel and Carmen is abruptly truncated by Rosa's reappearance. Rosa, angry because she was jilted by Miguel maliciously, begin to spread the rumors that he is gay. She talks to Carmen's father and as a consequence he forbids his daughter to see Miguel again. Miguel becomes very upset with the lost of his girlfriend, blaming his closeness to Eduardo for it. Hurt and enraged, Miguel goes to the bank where Eduardo works and makes a terrible scene, shouting, insulting, and reveling Eduardo's homosexuality to all. In the last scene Eduardo is alone in his apartment and hears the rings of the doorbell. He looks through the peephole and his face lights up with joy. When the door is ajar the film ends without seeing the visitor.Kailash Sharma is found guilty of sexually molesting Shanno and killing Dheeraj Kumar Verma, and sentenced to be hanged by the Jammu & Kashmir Sessions Court. After his appeals at both High and Supreme Courts fail, he asks his wife, Seema, to take their daughter, Pinky, and re-locate elsewhere. Seema and Pinky re-locate to Bombay where she takes up sewing to make a living. She befriends their neighbour, Ratan, and both get married. 14 years later Pinky has grown up and has a boyfriend, Vikram, who she wants to marry. Meanwhile, Kailash, who is still alive, as his sentence was changed to life imprisonment, arrives in Bombay to look for his family. After sometime he does find them but decides not to interfere in their lives as they appear to be happy. But when Seema finds out she goes to meet him secretly - a visit that will set off a chain of events that will end up drastically changing their lives forever.Two small children, who are brothers, lose their parents in a fire. They are harassed by bad men and get separated. They grow up and become criminals. One is played by Shashi Kapoor, while the other is played Danny Denzongpa. They become enemies, not knowing that they are brothers. A policewoman, played by Shabana Azmi, goes undercover in the Shashi Kapoor's criminal group, which includes Asrani and Aruna Irani. She and Shashi Kapoor fall in love, but Aruna Irani doesn't trust as she loves Shashi Kapoor herself. Madan Puri is the main villain.Maharaj Singh is a proud owner of several derby-winning stallions, and lives in a palatial farmhouse with his wife, Rukmini and young son, Chimpoo. One day dacoits attack his farmhouse with a view of stealing the stallions, but Maharaj fights them, killing the son of the leader of the dacoits, Maan Singh. Maan Singh swears to avenge the death of his son, and abducts Chimpoo. Years later, a servant of Maharaj, Ram Singh, brings a young man named Badal into the Singhs lives, and tells them that he is their missing son Chimpoo. Both Maharaj, Rukmini, and their daughter, Sunita, are delighted at having Chimpoo back in their lives. Then Badal and Sunita fall in love with each other. It is then Badal confesses to Maharaj that he is not Chimpoo, but a former convicted jailbird, who was asked to impersonate him by an embittered Ram Singh. Maharaj does not want to relay this information to an ailing Rukmini, and decides to keep it quiet for the rest of their lives. But sooner or later Rukmini is bound to find out - especially when Badal and Sunita openly show their love - will this shock of an intimate brother and a sister spare her or has fate something else in store for her?Akiko is the heir to a yakuza clan. Hitoshi, who has been kicked out of the rival Hono Clan after attempting to seduce Akiko, kidnaps her at the behest of Hanamura. Hanamura has formed a new gang and intends to use Akiko as a hostage to take over her clan's territory. During the torture and abuse sessions which follow, Akiko comes to enjoy the treatment and forsakes her gangland empire.{{cite book}}Pramod Sharma  is the son of a wealthy businessman . An idealistic person, he leaves his family business to become a lecturer of history at the college Adarsh Mahavidyalya. The students of the college are highly indisciplined, and the crowd includes Rakesh , a rowdy student involved in several unlawful activities. Pramod tries to reform these students. Rita , the college chairman's daughter and a student, develops an infatuation for Pramod. Meanwhile, Pramod meets Madhu , the daughter of the college principal H. P. Shastri . He learns that Madhu lost her lover to a plane crash and became physically handicapped in a subsequent accident. Madhu falls in love with Pramod, who brings positivity to her life. Rita, who is jealous of Pramod's relationship with Madhu, falsely accuses him of sexual harassment, supported by Rakesh. The rest of the story tells of how Pramod gets through this imtihan  of life. In the end, Pramod proves his innocence and takes leave from the college, joined by Madhu.Tora-san meets three women on vacation when he travels to Fukui. One of the women meets him at his home, and he believes she has fallen in love with him, unaware that she hopes to marry a potter in the countryside.{{cite web}}Tim  and Lee  are emloyees of a mental hospital working as an orderly and nurse respectively. One day a crazy man named Cheng Ming  is institutionalized who carries a bag of trash. Tim and Lee discover that the bag is full of artifacts from the Ming Dynasty. Unfortunately they are all broken pieces and cannot be traded for money. Then Chiang talks about a Princess and Tim and Lee figure that Cheng knows where are the artifacts from. Later on, Cheng dies from heart attack and Tim and Lee find Princess  and find out that she is Cheng's daughter. Princess tells them that her father discovered a sunk boat at the coast of Hong Kong. Tim and Lee starts to plan for their luxurious life, including quitting their jobs, and set out to find the artifacts. They do discover tons of it and brings it to trade for money. However, the ones Tim and Lee find are revealed to be fakes. With their dreams of luxury over, Lee gets his job back and Tim got insane and became a mental patient.In 1944 Lucien Lacombe, a young peasant in the Lot region is refused permission to join the French Resistance. Instead, the opposing "French Gestapo" obtain from him information about an underground leader and recruit him into their organization. Lucien enjoys his power and inclusion as a member of the German Police{{citation needed}}  but soon falls in love with a Jewish girl. Forcing himself upon her family, Lucien becomes personally involved with the very people some of his collaborators and superiors are, in part, employed to oppress.In the hospital in Rome, Italy, an old Russian emigrant woman dies. Dying, she tells her granddaughter that she has hidden her treasures in Leningrad under the lion. Unfortunately, beside her granddaughter she was heard also by a solid doctor, 2 male nurses, an Italian mafioso and a hobbling man. After that they all fly to Russia by the same flight . Having some adventures in the airplane because of mafiosi, they all arrive to Leningrad and begin to dig under every lion statue in the city.The story starts with Lord Ting Chung  getting hired to escort a women's sick brother to the doctor, but he does it for free. To get there they must pass through "Stormy Hills", an area of Ancient China controlled by criminals. Then the sick man turns out to be the king of the criminals and is not really sick, he is just trying to reclaim his throne from an imposter. The king had previously murdered Ting Chung's father and now Ting Chung has to fight for his life to get out and also to avenge his father.The film revolves around the exploits of a detective agency in Hong Kong called Mannix Private Detective Agency. It is headed by private detective Wong Yeuk Sze  with his emotionally drained assistant Puffy . Meanwhile, Lee Kwok Kit , a kung fu expert, who works at a Vitasoy plant factory and spends most of the time doing kung fu tricks to impress a girl, ultimately loses his job. Seeking to find another line of work, Lee attempts to joins Wong's detective agency. Despite Lee's impression with his kung fu talent which involves his snatching trick, Wong was not impressed. Then, as it appears that Lee would not get the job, Wong discovers that his wallet was missing and was presumed stolen by one bystander who bumped into them, which led to a scene where Wong fights the thief in the kitchen using sausage nunchaku as a weapon. Wong's onslaught backfires, and just as the thief walks away, Lee intercepts him and recovers the wallet, thus impressed Wong to hire him for the job. In truth, the wallet was in Wong's possession the whole time; they attacked an innocent bystander and stole his wallet. The trio work together to serve their clients in many situations. For example, they were hired by a woman to capture photos of his husband's affair with another woman so she can get reward money at court. Later, they were also hired by a supermarket owner to foil an upcoming shoplifting case which leads to a scene where Lee puts his kung fu skills in use to fight thugs. The most important part of the film is when a gang of robbers led by Uncle Nine  who demands ransom from a cinema mogul. He then leads his gang to extort movie goers and Wong is one of them, who struggles against Uncle Nine in the mayhem, injuring his leg in the process. Lee, in the midst of the chaos, catches a few of the thugs and beats them up. Later, the gang leaves in an ice cream trunk that one thugs stole from the street, but Lee had defeated the thug earlier as he drives them to the police station. Along the way, Lee turns on the freezer which freezes the gang in the back. At the police station, Lee hands in the thugs to a police sergeant , who appears throughout the film, both as a pursuer and as an investigation case to Wong and Lee. Lee later receives a good citizen award and leaves Wong's agency to start his own. Puffy also joins Lee. Months later, an injured Wong returns to his agency with no assistant and no clients, who all went to Lee's agency known as Cannon Detective Service. Lee makes a deal with Wong to work together with Lee getting a higher share of profits. Wong refuses, and later learned a snatching trick from Lee, who was doing it in the beginning. Lee then offers a deal to work with Wong where they share half of the profits. The Front Page  , unrelated to the 1976 film, reunites the trio of the Hui Brothers, which is also the last film the three appeared together. This time the story revolves around the exploits of a tabloid magazine company. Like its predecessor, their exploits throughout the film resulted in investigation on celebrity scandals and their unfortunate situation involving the trio and a group of bank robbers.Set in a Danish all-boys boarding school, one of the boys, Bo , develops a special relationship with the headmaster's young son Kim . In the beginning of the film the headmaster is trying to get funding for a new gym for the school. The boarding school is likely a Christian one, as they have school prayer and the teachers keep referring to good Christian morals. In another plotline, a troubled student is expelled for displaying pornographic posters. Some of the students decide to protest this by walking-out of classes. The boy is eventually allowed to return to school so that he may graduate. At the year-end graduation ceremony, the boys present to the entire school and their families a short film they made by themselves based on the commandment "Love thy neighbor".In apartheid era South Africa, Shack Twala , a black revolutionary who had served time on Robben Island, is freed by Rina van Niekerk, his Afrikaner defence attorney, because he would be a victim of retroactive legislation. Rina, estranged from her husband Blane, is having a relationship with an English mining engineer, Jim Keogh , who has attended Shack's trial. Surprised by the verdict, Rina, Jim and Shack go off to celebrate at her house. They are stopped by the South African Police who are conducting identity document checks and arresting everyone who does not have their papers on them. As Shack has only just been released from prison he will not receive his papers until the next day. The police Constable and Shack antagonise each other leading to Shack being handcuffed and arrested. When Rina attempts to pull the Constable off Shack, the policeman hits her, knocking her to the ground. Jim assaults and knocks out the Constable making all three fugitives. At Police Headquarters, an SAP Brigadier is criticised by Major Horn of the South African Bureau of State Security  for not only arresting Shack but continuing with their random identity checks and arrests that have infuriated world opinion. The three fugitives are followed and monitored by BOSS to lead them to discover their escape route to Botswana and its facilitators, two Indian dentists; a stash of stolen uncut diamonds being used to fund the "Black Congress"  and the leader of the "Black Congress", a man named Wilby.Maddalena Ciarrapico arrives in New York City from Italy to get married and bringing with her a gift of mortadella  from her co-workers from the sausage factory where she used to work, for her fiancee. But she is refused permission to bring the mortadella into the country because of the ban on meat that may contain food-borne diseases.http://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/65333 An indignant Maddalena refuses to hand the sausage over, staying in the customs office at the airport, sparking a diplomatic incident in which she attracts widespread sympathy and support.The life of the S&M-theme artist and author Seiu Itō is depicted in the film. His artistic life and Sadian philosophy, inspired by his torturing of his two wives and Tae, his favorite prostitute, are portrayed as shown in his journalistic writings. Tae is eventually driven insane due to Itō's attentions.<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn61}}Jyothi , a teenage girl who is in love with Ravi , suddenly marries Rajayya , an old man who is about her father's age. Everyone thinks she married him for the old man's property that she inherits after the marriage, but truth is different. The secret behind this unexpected marriage forms the rest of the gripping family story.During his travels Tora-san meets a troubled father with a baby. He shares a drink with the man who then abandons the baby into Tora-san's care. At his hometown in Shibamata, Tokyo, the family is worried about who will take care of the family shop once Tora-san's aunt and uncle have died. Tora-san arrives with the baby causing family and neighbors to speculate that he is the father. The family takes the sickly baby to the hospital where Tora-san falls in love with the nurse, causing complications. The baby's father returns, clearing up misunderstandings.{{cite web}}In 1950, Shoji Yamanaka is involved in a fight over cheating in a card game and stabs several men. He is sentenced to prison. When he is released from prison, he goes back to Hiroshima. In Hiroshima, he eats at a restaurant but has no money to pay. The waitress, Yasuko  offers to let him off but a gang led by Katsutoshi Otomo, the rebellious son of gangster leader Otomo, beat him. He is saved by Otomo senior and then he is offered a job as a gangster by Muraoka, Yasuko's uncle. Yasuko visits Yamanaka at his lodgings and they sleep together. Muraoka is furious and Yamanaka must hide for a year. Muraoka redeems himself by killing the manager of a mine for Muraoka. Muraoka welcomes him back and introduces him to Yasuko again. Yamanaka kills three more men and is convicted and sent to prison. He escapes from prison by faking tuberculosis and kills the man he thinks has sold him out. The police corner him and he commits suicide. Muraoka holds a funeral service for him.S.P. Choudhry  is a dedicated policeman, caring husband and a respected man in the community. Being a policeman, however, makes him a strong disciplinarian, even at home. Because of Choudhry’s dedication to hs job, his son, Jagan , grows up more under the care of his mother Lakshmi  than under his father. As Jagan grows up he becomes more and more rebellious. He begins to play truant, gamble and lie to his parents. Choudhry’s attempts to discipline him only results in Jagan resenting him. The rest of the film deals with clash after clash between father and son and the mother caught in the crossfire. Can Jagan reform and thereby unite his family?In this western, a Mexican desperado tries to flee his partner, a determined girlfriend, and a US Marshal.<ref nameallmovie.com| workhttp://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p1:18330|accessdate=February 12, 2007}}Prasanna  is nursed back to health by a classical singer Bhairavi  after a bloody street-side fight. The two are slowly drawn to each other and decide to marry in spite of their age difference and a past relationship that Bhairavi is still inextricably tied to. In the meantime, Prasanna's father  embarks on a relationship with the young Ranjini . We soon find out that Ranjini is Bhiaravi's daughter . Both relationships arrive at a dilemma with an unexpected twist when Bhairavi's long-lost husband  comes into picture.Someone masquerading as Zorro is robbing stagecoaches. Don Diego de la Vega attempts to clear his alter ego by using his wounded father and future sister-in-law as bait.Singer Suraj  is stranded in a resthouse during a rainstorm. While there he experiences the feeling he has been there before. He feels himself transported to another lifetime, and is drawn to a woman named Ratna . He is unable to forget the experience and, investigating further, discovers that in his past life he was a Chief Singer in the emperor's court - his name was Prakash, he was in love with a courtesan named Ratna, much to the chargin and anger of his family and the emperor, and they were tragically separated. He subsequently comes across a portrait of Ratna, and shortly meets a gypsy, Jhumri  who looks exactly like Ratna. Soon Jhumri is also able to remember her past life and her love for Prakash to the chagrin of Rita Malhotra  who loves Suraj, and Appa , the son of the leader of the gypsies , who will stop at nothing to make Jhumri his wife. Appa steals the portrait, and sets the gypsies against Suraj, so that he can marry Jhumri, and perhaps separate the two lovers again.A defecting Russian diplomat has arranged to meet with author Max Foster in Hong Kong, promising a diary that will tell the truth about Red China. The diplomat is murdered and foster tries to find the diary, which takes him to Sydney. Chinese, Russian and American spies take after him.Savitri , a Music teacher with a school, also takes Music tutorials for girls by going to their homes. Savitri lives with her brother, Chandar, who is a paiting contractor and Mother. She meets Manohar Dhani , a guide by profession who falls for her at the first meet. He follows her to her home on pretext of selling her eggs. Savitri knows fully aware that Manohar is just trying to woo her and is not an Egg seller. Sagar ,is US return businessman whose kid sister is a student of Savitri. On his return from US, he happens to hear Savitri's song and immediately falls for her as well. Savitri's friend who is also her brother's would be comes in with his Father , an astrology expert. He predicts that some good times are awaiting for Chandar but he also predicts a bad phase for his mother. He however refuses to share any details about her Sister Savitri. In the meantime Savitri is falling for Manohar and both rejoice. Sagar helps Chandar on account of old Friendship and also nurses a plan to marry his sister. He sends Savitri a letter offering to be student of her music and tone of letter clearly shows his intentions. Savitri fumes at this letter and complains to Sagar Sister in law who in turn explains Sagar's plan to marry her and also lists this as a reason to help her brother. Sagar's family visits Savitri's home and her sister in law proposes Savitri's marriage to Sagar. Savitri plainly refuses this and on hearing this her mother falls unconscious. Manohar meets with an accident and is in the hospital. In the meantime Savitri Marries Sagar on insistence from her critically ill mother. On the day on her marriage her Friend tells her about A. K.Hangal's prediction for her. She informs her that the man she marries would die within 40 days. Savitri tells Sagar about this and he is ready to take this risk and wants to marry her any way. After Marriage Savitri writes to Manohar about all the events. Manohar meets Savitri at her Brother's Marriage and proposes to kill her husband suggesting that he is any way going to die in 40 days. Savitri saves Sagar and asks Manohar to stay out of this and thus begins her hate for Manohar. Meanwhile Manohar befriends Sagar and enters their house suggesting Savitri that he would be able to kill Sagar any time. Savitri strongly disagrees with this and wants him to go away. Finally Savitri tells Sagar of Manohar's intentions and he confronts Manohar. Manohar tries to kill Sagar with a pistol but Savitri again saves Sagar and drives Manohar away. Thus Sagar and Savitri start living together happily. While going away Manohar meets Savitri's brother and tells him that relationship have changed . Chandar thus explains to his wife that Manohar had told him about all the events and was intentionally behaving in a cruel way, so that Savitri hates him and falls for Sagar.Ravi Khanna  lives happily with his widowed mother, wheelchair-using sister  and younger brother. He suffers from a terminal brain tumor, and has only 6 months to live. In an effort to provide for his family, he takes the responsibility of a murder that he has not committed to collect the ransom money of Rs. 500,000. He leaves a trail for the police to follow and he is convicted. While in prison he gets an attack and the jail authorities take him to the hospital where he undergoes a successful operation. Now, he is a confessed criminal for abduction, ransom and murder, which he himself planted himself. In order to save himself from the death penalty, he runs away from the hospital in search of the real murderer. He gets help from a thief named Michael . After many twists and turns, the plot unfolds, where the true identity of the criminal is revealed and Ravi Khanna is a free man.It is Life Day . Chewbacca, accompanied by Han Solo, is headed home to see his family. Along the way, the duo are chased by two Star Destroyers, but they escape into hyperspace. Meanwhile, on Kashyyyk, Chewbacca's family is preparing for his return. Malla attempts  to prepare a meal, the instructions of which are being aired via a local cooking show by an eccentric four-armed alien cook, Chef Gormaanda. Hoping to find the Millennium Falcon, she runs a computer scan for starships in the area, but is unsuccessful. Malla contacts Luke Skywalker, who, along with R2-D2, is working on his X-wing starfighter. Luke tells her that he does not know what happened. Malla contacts Saun Dann, a local human trader. He tells her through a carefully worded message that Han and Chewbacca are on their way and should be arriving soon. Saun Dann arrives with Life Day gifts for everyone. Back on the Falcon, Chewbacca and Han have just come out of hyperspace not far from Kashyyyk. Han notices an increased Imperial presence, so they decide to land in an unguarded area to the north. As they enter the atmosphere, Lumpy hears the roaring of the ship. Believing Han and Chewie might be arriving, Malla opens the door, but instead finds two Stormtroopers and officers. The Imperials force their way into the house. An officer orders a search for Chewbacca. As they search Saun Dann and the others attempt to distract them with food and Malla's music video box . When the music finishes, the head officer orders the search to continue. The head officer tells Malla to keep Lumpy busy while they search his room, so Lumpy  watches a cartoon on a viewscreen of one of his father's many adventures. The cartoon deals with Luke, Han, and Leia's first encounter with Boba Fett. During a search for a talisman, the Millennium Falcon crashes on a water planet known as Panna. Upon landing, they run into Fett, who claims to want to help them after saving Luke from a giant monster that attacks him from behind. They all board the Falcon, where Han has been infected by a mysterious sleeping virus caused by the talisman. Luke then contracts the virus as well. Fett and Chewie go into Panna City to get the cure. Once they get into the Imperial-occupied city, Fett instructs Chewie to stay behind while he gets the cure. Once away from Chewie, Fett contacts Darth Vader. On the Falcon, as C-3PO is caring for Han and Luke, R2-D2 intercepts the call between Vader and Fett, causing worry for C-3PO. Evading the Imperials, Fett and Chewie return to the Falcon with the cure. After everyone recovers from the virus, they learn of Fett's true allegiances. Fett blasts away in his jet pack, promising that they'll meet again. Everyone then escapes from the planet, and back to the rebel base on board the Falcon. When the cartoon finishes, Lumpy works to create a translation device from his Amorphian machine that will fool the Imperials into returning to their base by faking their commander's voice. To do so, he first must watch the manual for the device, being presented by a malfunctioning, incompetent robot . While the Imperials are all searching downstairs, the living room viewscreen activates, announcing that Tatooine is now being put under curfew by the Empire, due to "subversive forces." The video is announced as required viewing for all Imperial forces and much of it features Ackmena running the Mos Eisley Cantina. Part of the scene is shown in the bar. Ackmena is approached by an admirer: Krelman, an amorous alien, who misunderstood something she said to him the other night. When The Empire announces the curfew, Ackmena announces "last drink," and when the creatures ignore her, she sings a song, "Good night, but not goodbye" set to the "Cantina Band" theme. Lumpy uses this opportunity to put his plan into motion, faking a repeated call for the Imperials to "return to base." They leave, but the head officer instructs one of the stormtroopers to stay behind. After the other Imperials leave, the stormtrooper still hears the repeating signal and realizes they were tricked. He finds Lumpy and destroys the machine, then chases Lumpy outside. As they both run onto the deck, Han and Chewbacca arrive. Chewie protects Lumpy as Han dispatches the stormtrooper. After reuniting with everyone, an Imperial officer appears on the viewscreen, giving a general alert for the missing stormtrooper. Saun Dann quickly says that the trooper stole food and supplies and deserted, and the officer says he will send out a search party. The danger averted, the family prepares to go the festival at the Tree of Life. The family is seen in space, travelling toward a bright star. They walk into it, arriving at the great Tree of Life, where many Wookiees dressed in red robes are gathered. As Chewbacca takes the stage, C-3PO and R2-D2 suddenly appear, along with Luke, Leia and Han. Leia gives a short speech on the meaning of Life Day and sings a song in celebration, to the tune of the Star Wars theme, missing the high note. At the conclusion of the ceremony, Chewbacca remembers the adventures he had in the first film. That night, the Wookiee family sit around the feast table, celebrating the day and being back together again.Cleopatra "Cleo" Jones  is a strikingly beautiful black model with an array of flamboyant outfits. Modeling, however, is only a cover for her real job as a secret government agent. Cleo is a Bond-like heroine with power and influence; an object of awe for her flashy wardrobe, her ’73 silver and black Corvette Stingray  and her martial arts ability. While she evokes the glory of a funk goddess, she remains loyal to her drug-ravaged community and her lover, Reuben Masters, who runs B&S House .<ref name“Blaxploitation Films of the 1970s” |isbnNovotny Lawrence |publisher2008}} The film opens with Cleo overseeing the destruction of a poppy field in Turkey belonging to the evil drug lord, Mommy . When Cleo returns to LA to arrest the police responsible for the raid, she continues to take apart Mommy’s underworld drug business, thwarting her minions along the way.A young black man  from New York receives a sum of money. He buys new clothes and takes a flight to Japan. After he arrives, he is found fatally stabbed in a lift in a Tokyo hotel at the same time as a fashion show by designer Kyoko Yasugi  is being held. The police department, including Munesue  and his partner , come to investigate. The only clue is the dying man's last words "straw hat". At the same time, a woman having an extramarital affair, Naomi , is accidentally run over by Yasugi's son . He and his girlfriend dump her body in the sea, but drops his watch at the scene. He is haunted by his actions and confesses to his mother, Kyoko, who suggests he flees to New York with his girlfriend. Munesue starts to suspect that Kyoko knows more than she is letting on. He travels to New York to find out more about the dead man. There he is partnered with an American detective, played by George Kennedy, who seems to be the same man who killed Munesue's father. Munesue finds that the young man is the son of a black American soldier and a Japanese woman. He also finds Yasugi's son, who deliberately provokes George Kennedy into shooting him dead. Munesue returns to Japan and begins to suspect Kyoko. He travels to a resort and discovers that Kyoko was a prostitute in the years after the war. Finally he has enough evidence and confronts Kyoko that the black man was her son, and she killed him to protect her reputation. Kyoko commits suicide. In America, George Kennedy goes looking for the black man's father and finds he is dead. Then George Kennedy is stabbed and dies.When Sun-A becomes pregnant, she does not know who is the father of her unborn child, and asks Jeong-Su to help her care for the baby. She later finds out that Seok-Ku is the father and abandons the child. Sun-A and Seok-Ku decide to start a new life with the help of Jeong-Su.Taking a step aside from the usual serious dramas that Balachander is known to direct, this film was an attempt at a light comedy with its music serving as the main attraction. The film follows lead actor Kamal Hassan who plays a singer and his band on a tour to Singapore. Over there Kamal meets his love interest , only to find that she is terminally ill. The film ends on a tragic note with the lady's demise.The Russians are consorting with the traitorous Manchus, who plan to turn over a map of the strategic points the Russians could use to invade Chinese territories. So, with the hope that he can sniff out their pan and the traitors , the government sends out Chow Tien  to investigate and spy on the visiting Russian General, Tolstoy , and his lackeys. Since Tolstoy is a pistol expert, Tien gets his brother Ko , who is a dagger expert, and his tag along kid  to help aide him. Soon the plot reveals a traitorous magistrate and the key figure behind it all , but the method by which the Manchu’s identify themselves to the Russians, a rare snuff bottle, is stolen by Tien and his cohorts. But, Tein and crew are in the midst of enemies and must fight their way out alone in a desperate bid to save China and bring the traitors down.Aravindan, a college lecturer, falls in love with his student Radha and later marries her. Aravindan had lost his mother at an early age itself. He tries to find his mother in Radha. He didn't even touch his wife with a feeling of lust for this reason. This creates severe problems in his married life. Later, a psychiatrist helps him to return to a normal life.Kusum   is a spunky and carefree schoolgirl who lives with her father , brother and sister-in-law . Guddi has a crush on film star Dharmendra, who plays himself. Nobody knows the extent of her crush until she visits Bombay, where her sister-in-law's brother, Navin , develops a crush on her. Guddi discloses to Navin that she is in love with Dharmendra. In an attempt to win Guddi's heart, Navin discusses the matter with his uncle , who just happens to know Dharmendra. With Dharmendra's help, they try to show Guddi the difference between the real world and the reel world. Guddi changes and accepts that nothing is true in the reel world. The film ends with Guddi agreeing to marry Navin.The Yang family, men and women, had served their country  loyally for generations. During the war with Western Xia, General Yang Tsung-pao is ambushed and killed. His death leaves his only son, Yang Wen as the only male heir left to the Yang family. His widow, Mu Kuei-ying, the grand matriarch and the entire family set out to avenge his death and defend the country. Due to the interference of a corrupt official, Wang Ching, the Yangs were unable to have the emperor's consent to use the imperial army. Thus, they set off with whatever volunteer troops they could muster. Knowing of Mu Kuei-ying's reputation as a warrior and tactician, the king of West Hsia and his sons try various ways to stop her to no avail. They are outsmarted at the end as Mu Kuei-ying, the Yang family and Sung soldiers successfully storm their stronghold.The film is based on the lifestyle of Adivasis of Attappady at Malleswaram Hills. Slash and burn cultivation practised by the Adivasis suddenly stopped by the Government forcing them to search for new jobs. The hero changes his hair style to suit the times. The courtship dance and traditional songs were depicted in a realistic way.Tora-san returns to his family home in Shibamata, Tokyo, but soon leaves again due to squabbles involving a dog they have named Tora-san. During his travels in Shikoku, Tora-san makes the acquaintance of a descendant of a local daimyō. The old man asks Tora-san to find his son's widow in Tokyo, whom he had previously alienated.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/18723|title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}<ref name Stuart |last Stuart Galbraith IV|urlTora-san 19: Tora-san meets His Lordship  |date2010-01-18|publisherhttp://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/305842|title2010-01-18|publisher=British Film Institute}}In 1923 Tokyo Lady Minako is the owner of a shabby boarding house with a collection of bizarre characters for tenants. Gōda, one of her tenants, spends most of his time in the attic spying on the other tenants through holes he has drilled into the ceiling. During one of his peeping sessions, Gōda witnesses the murder of one of the tenants at the hand of Lady Minako. Gōda becomes obsessed with Lady Minako, and determines to commit a grotesque murder in order to prove to her that he is her soul mate. He kills another tenant - a priest - by dripping poison into his mouth through the ceiling. A series of grotesque murders follow. The film ends apocalyptically with the Great Kanto Earthquake which kills both of them during their intercourse.{{cite web}}{{cite book}}A young widow commits suicide when she was compelled to forego her modesty to save her child from illness. The child runs away on seeing his dead mother and becomes a thief named Raja. Raja is a very handsome and intelligent thief who manages to steal and escape from police every time. He lives with his friend Tony who dreams of marrying his girl friend Mary. Raja once steals at a home during a night and police chase him. To escape from police he enters into a marriage hall and in bridegroom's room. He finds a letter of groom who ran away as he does want to marry the girl his father arranged for him. Raja disguises himself as groom veiling his face with flowers when original groom's father knocks the door. Raja eventually marries the girl in the marriage hall.He feels troubled on whatever happened and he escapes from the room during the nuptial night without even seeing who is his wife as she also veiled her face with wedding dress. The groom's father and the bride misunderstands that original groom has escaped from the hall. Raja is caught by police and he sets to jail for six months. The original groom dies in an accident on the same night. Nirmala  is thrown out by her in-laws as she is an unlucky girl because of which their son died. Nirmala returns to her uncle's home where she is not welcomed due to their financial position. She wanders everywhere and she finds no help from anybody rather try to spoil her modesty. She turns to a courtesan and dances for her living. Raja is released from jail and he searches for the girl he married. When he does not find the whereabouts of that girl he returns back to his normal life of stealing. He rents a room and stays with his friend Tony near the place where Nirmala now courtesan Rani resides. Raja visits Rani's home to escape from police and he sees Rani dancing. Something makes him feel bad and he slaps Rani and throws away one of the clients who tried to misbehave with her. Rani does not get angry but she liked Raja slapping her. Rani and Raja without knowing about their relation to each other start to develop a feeling and they start to love.  Rani insists Raja to stop stealing and Raja insists her to stop dancing. Both decide to live a decent life. Rani changes the mind of one her clients and because of which his wife accepts her as her sister as she saved her husband from doing wrong. Raja finds a job as school van conductor. But he loses his job when the school finds he was thief before. Raja and Rani do a small business of selling snacks but are charged for child theft one day. The father of the child is the man whom Rani changed from becoming bad. Rani and Raja are released and they become good friends of the man's family. The wife of the person invites to their child's birthday party and gives her good saree and necklace to wear on that day. Rani loses the necklace given by the man's wife. To return the necklace they struggle a lot as it costs in thousands. Raja and Rani are compelled to break the promise made to each other without each other's knowledge. Raja goes to steal in home and gets caught. He finds Rani dancing in front of the owner of the house. When the owner of the house tries to misbehave with Rani, Raja rushes to save her. In a struggle the owner is killed and Raja is blamed for that. Did Raja really killed the owner? What happened to the necklace which both have lost? Did Raja and Rani know whom they are to each other? This forms the rest of the story.Lee  is a Shaolin martial artist from Hong Kong who possesses great philosophical insight into martial arts as well as physical prowess. He receives an invitation to a martial arts competition on an island organised by the mysterious Han . Lee learns from his Sifu  that Han was also once a Shaolin student, but had been expelled from their order for abusing their code of conduct. A man named Braithwaite  from British Intelligence approaches Lee and asks for his help in an undercover mission. Han is suspected to be involved in drug trafficking and prostitution. However, since Han's island is only partly in their jurisdiction, they are unable to conduct any formal investigations - Han will not allow firearms on the island, both to impede assassination attempts and to prevent the international authorities from gaining a justification to launch a raid. Han runs a martial arts school to protect his drug operations, as well as holding his tournament every three years to recruit international talent to expand his criminal business. Before leaving, Lee learns from his teacher that Han's bodyguard O'Hara  had been involved in the death of his sister, Su Lin , years ago, when she committed suicide to save herself from dishonour after being cornered by O'Hara and a collection of Han's thugs. During the incident, O'Hara received a facial scar when Lee's father slashed him with a knife. Lee arrives on Han's island and receives a warm reception. Joining him are other competitors including Roper ([[John Saxon , a down-on-his-luck white American playboy-gambler on the run from the mob, and Williams ([[Jim Kelly , an African-American activist on the run after defending himself against two racist white policemen in Los Angeles. Roper and Williams are revealed to be old friends who also have a betting scam going: one will underperform until the other can get a bet on the outcome at good odds. Both win their first fight easily. That night, the competitors are all offered girls of their choice by Han's assistant, Tania . Williams chooses several women, while Roper cunningly chooses Tania . Lee asks for a girl he saw earlier in Han's entourage. Lee knows she is Mei Ling , an agent whom Braithwaite has placed on the island to gather intelligence. When she arrives, she is unable to give Lee much information as she has been unable to escape Han's strict observation. That night, leaving Mei Ling in the bedroom alone, Lee begins searching the island for evidence and finds a secret entrance to an underground base, where drugs are being manufactured and tested on unwitting prisoners. He runs into Han's guards but manages to take them down before they can identify him. He is seen by Williams, who is outside for some fresh air and practice. The next day, Han warns the competitors about wandering out of their rooms at night. He punishes his guards for failure in their duties and the guards meet their horrible ends at the hands of the sadistic Bolo , Han's chief bodyguard. Moments later, Lee is called to his first match and his opponent turns out to be O'Hara, who is clearly outclassed and eventually attacks Lee with broken bottles. Lee defeats O'Hara and kills his prone adversary as an act of revenge for his involvement in his sister's suicide. Announcing that O'Hara's dishonourable attack has caused him to lose face very badly, Han ends the day's matches. Later, Han summons Williams and accuses him of attacking the guards the previous night. Williams denies this and claims he wasn't the only one out at night. Han demands Williams tell him who else was outside but Williams changes the subject about wanting to leave the island. Han refuses to give him permission to leave and calls his henchmen; Williams takes them out and then starts to fight with Han. Han seems easily to dominate in the struggle, and Williams crashes into a nearby opium den. Intoxicated by the fumes, Williams gets weaker and Han beats him to death with his hand, which is revealed to be prosthetic and made of cast iron. Han takes Roper on a tour of his underground base and invites him to be his representative for his heroin smuggling operations in the United States. When Roper seems reluctant, Han shows him the mutilated corpse of Williams, hinting that Roper will face the same fate if he refuses to cooperate. The same night, Lee breaks into the underground base, avoiding a booby-trap set for him, and gathers sufficient evidence to warrant Han's arrest, but sets off an alarm while using the radio transmitter to contact Braithwaite. After a spectacular fight with dozens of Han's guards he is eventually lured into a trap and captured. The next morning, Han asks Roper to fight Lee as a test of his loyalty. Roper refuses and Han sends him to fight Bolo instead. When Roper emerges victorious, the infuriated Han orders his men to kill both Lee and Roper. Despite being hopelessly outnumbered, Lee and Roper manage to hold off the enemy until Mei Ling releases the captives in Han's underground prison. After breaking free, they join them in the fight to even the odds. Amidst the chaos, Han attempts to sneak away, only to have Lee follow him. Lee tells Han, "You have offended my family and you have offended the Shaolin Temple." After a spectacular fight in a room full of mirrors, Han is defeated by Lee and impaled on his own spear. When Lee returns to Roper, he finds that most of Han's men have been defeated and rounded up but in a bittersweet moment, Roper also finds Tania's lifeless body lying amongst the wreckage. Lee and Roper exchange a weary thumbs-up just as military helicopters arrive in response to the distress call.A police officer, DSP Shamsher Singh  captures the notorious bandit Mangal Singh  just as Mangal's wife is about to give birth. She dies at childbirth, but not before extracting from the DSP his promise to take care of her son. Subsequently, DSP Singh raises the boy alongside his own. Though ironically, DSP Singh's natural son Kishen  has a wicked streak, while Mangal's son, Amit , is endowed with an honest nature. Released after 14 years in jail, Mangal finds out that his son is with his old enemy. He mistakes Kishen to be his son and instigates him to fight against Shamsher's family. They join the underworld gang and spread havoc. Amit becomes an honest police officer and is assigned the task of nabbing the gang. After a misunderstanding, Kishen comes to believe he is actually Mangal's son and falls under the bandit's influence, though he continues to live in the inspector's home. .Parvarish 1977 synopsis{{copy edit}} In 1960, 15 years after the end of the end of World War II, Shozo Hirono, the protagonist of the first film in the trilogy, has managed to separate from the Yamamori family, and create his own small family and to extend his circle of acquaintances. These new friendships include a powerful underboss of the Muraoka family, Noboru Uchimoto.  The movie begins with Shozo, Uchimoto and Fumio Sugihara , discussing business in the street. They are attacked by an assassin and Sugihara dies. The killer blends in the crowd before Shozo has an opportunity to apprehend him. At Sugihara's funeral, one of the guests vomits on Sugihara's remains, then hastily leaves the ceremony. The others know that men was beat by sugihara and probably did it on purpose, so they ask Uchimoto, sworn brother of the deceased to take care of the man, but he cowardly refuses saying that he is a guest of the boss, much to the rage of the elder members of the family. Later Shozo meets with his advisor Kanichi Okubo, a retired yakuza, who explains that his guarantor, Yasuda, has to take care of many other people, and much to his dismay his new guarantor is Yamamori, a good businessman but incompetent boss that caused the death of his friends 5 years before. So Shozo unwillingly joins the ranks of the Yamamori family as underboss. After learning from Makihara, Yamamori's second in command, that Muraoka resigned and is to chose a successor, he realises that the only reason Yamamori took him is because of Shozo's close connections with the Muraoka family, and that most likely he was behind the assassination of Sugihara. The next day he meets with Uchimoto and others, where he learns from him that he wants to be sworn brother with someone from the Akashi family, one of the biggest families in Kobe and in all Japan in order to strengthen his position, and asks Shozo for help, given that he's friend with Shinichi Iwai, an underboss of said family. Despite advising Uchimoto not to do so, he agrees. Shozo takes under his wing a young worker named Kuramoto, a hopeless thug who recently badly hurt a sumo fighter, as a favor for his old schoolteacher. That summer, Soichi Eda is parolled from prison. Eda is one of the most powerful underbosses of the Muraokas. Sometime later Hirono, Uchimoto, Akira Takeda , Eda and Hiroshi Matsunaga  all become sworn brothers. Later, thanks to Hirono, Uchimoto's request is approved and he became a sworn brother with Shigeo Aihara, who is at the same time sworn brother with Tetsuo Akihara, Oyabun of the Akihara family. Then it's explained that there is only one real threat to the Akiharas: the Shinwa group of Kobe, and a big battle was being fought all across Japan with many casualties, and with Hiroshima becoming a flash point in the struggle for control. In a conversation between Shozo and Aihara, the latter is upset because he believes Uchimoto is double crossing the family, by being officially under boss Muraoka, but at the same time making oaths of loyalty to Akihara, Hirono apologizing in his behalf, claiming that  while he's a yakuza, he's also a businessman, forgive his rudeness That evening he reunites with the Muraoka underbosses. They say they are going to name Yamamori the successor. Hirono, surprised, says that is a terrible choice that everyone will regret, but the bosses say there's no other option, as Muraoka is upset with Uchimoto for swearing loyalty to Akihara, thinking that he sold Iroshima to Kobe. Matsunaga, Takeda and Eda all have their reasons not to accept, and so they have to chose Yamamori. At the same time Uchimoto enters the room in rage, because Hirono told the truth about him to Aihara, and because of that the ceremony to become sworn berother with Akihara has been put off indefinitely. This end with Uchimoto leaving and the two angry at each other. Two Months later, the Yamamori and Muraoka family form one big family, under boss Yamamori, during the celebration, in witch Yamamori ignores Hirono, despite being him who put him where he is now, Uchimoto seems even more enraged with Hirono, blaming him for not being the successor to Muraoka. Uchimoto is publicly humiliated by Yamamori, prompting him to break in tears, so the others decide to go to a bar, leaving Hirono to comfort of Uchimoto, at which point Uchimoto begins to yell at Shozo, thinking he was the one that suggested Yamamori. Uchimoto decides not to listen, and threatens to smash Yamamori and kill Hirono. Uchimoto was at the moment the mediator in a conflict between Hamazake anf Komoro families from Iwakuni, and both being supported by Shinwa and Akihara. He decides to use this to begin a proxy war, and take control of the Yamamori family which he believes is rightfully his.Yasha Mazur  is a turn-of-the-20th-century Jewish stage magician, conman and mystic. He tours through eastern Europe for his show while at the same time destroying his own career progressively through his personal problems. Nearly everywhere he goes, Yasha has a local girlfriend, from the youthful Zeftel , to the feisty Elizabeta . His burned out manager/impressario Wolsky  arranges for him to have one more chance at theatrical success, which requires that he pull off a never seen before trick in a Warsaw theater.Yunpeng  and his servant stay at a country inn one dark evening to escape potential robbers and ghosts. But Yunpeng chances into something far more dangerous! He accidentally happens upon the comely Anu  naked in bed, and to make up for his rudeness he has to marry her. Because of her beauty, the request is not too difficult to fulfill...until she is introduced to his aunts and uncles, who notice her ghastly green glow and deduce that she's a spirit from the netherworld. But there's something even darker about her appearance, and it may be revenge on his in-laws.Saritha  is a working woman in a middle-class family. She works hard to support her widowed sister, unmarried sister, her blind younger brother, her mother, her drunkard brother Murthy Rajnikanth and his family. Her father abandons the family and becomes a saint. Her brother not only does not take responsibilities, but also creates additional problems for her. She has a longtime boyfriend, who wants to marry her, but she doesn't because of her commitment to her family. His eyes now wander to Saritha's widowed younger sister  who reciprocates his feelings. Saritha, after reading her boyfriend's love letter to her sister, arranges for them to get married, thus giving up her chance of having a life with him. She eventually accepts a marriage proposal of her boss , when she realizes that her brother has become responsible enough to take care of her family. She also helps her distressed friend, played by Phataphat Jayalaksmi to settle in life. She decides to resign from hard work, but could not as the result of turning point in a typical Balachandar style climax.The film picturised the some events in the life of Lord Krishna. It begins with the marriage of Devaki and Vasudev, birth of Krishna, Krishna Leelalu and killing of Kamsa by Krishna.Fan Ko, an engineering architect in Hong Kong who is also highly skilled in martial arts, is called to the bedside of his dying father, who reveals that he long ago had an affair with a woman in Thailand, who bore him a son. He begs Fan Ko to go to Thailand and find the young man, and shows him an old photo, taken when the brother was perhaps 10 years old. But even then, the fierce-looking boy was training in the Thai martial art, Muay Thai, and sported a tattoo on his left arm of a ship's anchor and a swallow flying underneath. So Fan Ko catches a Cathay Pacific flight to Bangkok Airport and is met by a family friend and booked into a room at the Dusit Thani Hotel. Leaving behind the suit-and-tie of his job, he's dressed in the colorful fashions of the day.  At that moment in Thailand, it is Songkran, the Thai new year, when revellers splash water on each other. However, at Lumphini Boxing Stadium, the atmosphere is decidedly less festive, as another young boxer has been killed in the ring by the current champion, Cannon, who is backed by the local Triad boss and a crooked fight promoter, Qiang-ren. Using tactics of intimidation and with crooked officials on their payroll, the mob keeps supplying fighters to face the brutal Cannon. Among them is Wenile, who needs to raise money to pay for an operation for his sick mother, despite the objections of his girlfriend, Yulan. Fan Ko, meanwhile, is nosing around at Lumpini stadium, and thinks that a fighter named Miller may be his brother after he sees a large plywood cutout of the boxer and notices the anchor-and-bird tattoo. He asks a bystander, an old fighter-turned-alcoholic, what the man's name is. "People call him 'dead man'," the old drunk says, because he's the next to face Cannon. When Miller faces Cannon, Fan Ko tries in vain to stop the fight, and Miller is pummeled – another fighter killed in the ring. Fan Ko checks the tattoo. It's a ship's anchor alright, but the bird flying underneath is an eagle. Miller was not his brother. By now Fan Ko has become acquainted with a young Thai woman named Mei-dai, who shows him more sights around Bangkok, including the Grand Palace. And, through his investigation around Lumpini stadium, he's met Wenile, but he's not seen Wenile's left arm. Then Wenile gets in the ring against Cannon. Fan Ko is watching the fight and sees the tattoo on Wenile's arm – it's a ship's anchor with a swallow underneath. Wenile is Fan Ko's brother. The fight against Cannon is a tough one, but Wenile is a strong fighter and he comes back from a savage beating to win. Fan Ko runs up to the ringside and tells Wenile that they are brothers. Because the leader of the Triad has lost a lot of money, he wants to kill Wenile. But now Wenile is paired with his brother – a Muay Thai fighter and a Muay Chine expert. They can't lose.Tora-san meets an old girlfriend on his travels. When she returns home with him, his family attempts to arrange a marriage between the two. After a misunderstanding occurs, the woman leaves, and the family is left regretting that they interfered.<ref name  http://www.kinejun.jp/cinema/id/18386 |title2010-01-18|languageKinema Junpo}}{{cite web}}The Emperor's Minister of State Cheng, an authoritarian ruler, arranges for Hu Lung, one of his old students to distract General Chow while he assassinates the leader of the Ming rebels. Chow hunts for Hu Lung, but must avoid the authorities since he is a suspect in the murder. He eventually finds Chow, but is thwarted by Hu Lung's master, Phillip Ko, and Minister Cheng's hired enforcer, Shen Yu. Shen Yu is hunting for Chow in order to arrest him. Although Shen Yu wants to arrest Chow, he does not kill him, preferring that he goes to court first. This goes against Minister Cheng's orders to kill him. Hu Lung and Chow escape in the ensuing confrontation between Shen Yu and Phillip Ko. Hu Long confesses to his master that he was ordered to kill the rebel leader, and Phillip Co confronts Minister Cheng. Chow learns iron armour and later iron finger. from a young child and his sister to defeat the Invincible Armor technique, but his training is cut short when Shen Yu arrives to arrest him again. He gives Chow three days to clear his name. Minister Chang's plot is eventually exposed, and he is confronted by Chow, Shen Yu, and others.Vikas Chandra  and Aarti  have recently married, and they move into their new apartment. One day they go out to watch a late night Hindi movie at a local cinema theatre. The movie gets over well after midnight, and as no cab is found this hour, they decide to walk home by foot. On the way, they are suddenly waylaid by four men, who assault Vikas, leaving him unconscious, and forcibly take Aarti with them. When Vikas regains his senses he finds himself in hospital with a head wound. He is informed that Aarti is in the same hospital, after being gang-raped and assaulted. This incident makes headlines in the media, and is also a subject of discussion by politicians during their election campaign. Vikas feels haunted by this incident, and does not know how to act further. Aarti, on the other hand, has been completely traumatised, and is unable to trust any male. Now the couple faces a serious crisis leading to a loveless relationship, and only a miracle can bring the old spark back into their married life.Diego de la Vega  is about to return to Spain from the New World when he chances to meet his old friend, Miguel de la Serna. Miguel has just been appointed the new governor of Nuova Aragon after the death of his uncle, Don Fernando. Diego tries to warn Miguel that Nuova Aragon has been ruled by greed and hatred for many generations and that Miguel's uncle  was probably murdered, but Miguel, who is consumed by pacifistic humanitarian ideals, will not listen. Later that same evening, Miguel is attacked by several men while walking outside the inn. Diego arrives and, with stunning swordplay, defeats the men and forces one of them to talk. The man says that Colonel Huerta  sent them to kill Miguel. Dying, Miguel agrees to let Diego go in his place, but makes him swear that "the new Governor will never kill." Diego reluctantly agrees. Months later in Nuova Aragon, Colonel Huerta asks the council for complete control of the army and government. Just then, Diego  arrives and announces that he is the new governor. He then meets Miguel's aunt, Carmen , who is little inclined to have any kind of familial relationship with her "nephew". He also meets Kapitan Fritz von Markel , the head of the Governor's personal guard, and narrowly escapes an assassination attempt via a bowl of poisoned sweets . Diego and Joaquin  watch Huerta force his men through a grueling fencing practice; afterwards, Huerta slices through candles without disturbing them, showing off his skill. In response to the Governor's request for "personal safety", he appoints Sergeant Garcia , an overweight soldier with more than a bit of an appetite, as the Governor's bodyguard. Later, in Diego's room, the dog Assassin shows Diego and Joaquin a secret passageway behind a bookshelf. In disguise, Diego and Joaquin roam the streets of Nuova Aragon, seeing how much the people have been cowed. Two incidents attract Diego's attention: a group of boys causing mischief to corrupt merchants leaving behind a chalked "Z", and a monk named Brother Francisco trying to rouse the people against Huerta's cruelty. After the monk is helped to evade capture by the soldiers by friendly townspeople, Diego and Joaquin question one of the boys, Chico. Although unwilling to talk at first, Chico is convinced to trust Diego and tells him about the legend of Zorro: "the spirit of the black fox. He's a great fighter and he always wins, he can never die." Bringing Brother Francisco's cart back to him, Diego, Joaquin and Chico witness Brother Francisco being arrested by the soldiers. The next day, Brother Francisco has been unjustly sentenced to 20 lashes for fraud in selling rotten hides and slander against the merchant who has framed him. After a few lashes, Diego appears as Zorro, releases Brother Francisco and forces the soldiers to give "the corrupt judge, the lying witness, and the murdering executioner" three times the number of lashes Brother Francisco was sentenced to. Diego, once again as Serna, comments on a portrait of Hortensia Pulido  and is attracted to her. He is informed by Aunt Carmen that her family was once wealthy but now poor, a fact confirmed by Huerta who claims that the Pulidos were conspiring against the people of Nuova Aragon. Later in the town marketplace, Hortensia urges the people to rise up against the soldiers, saying that the scales the merchants use are rigged. Garcia shows up, ordering her to stop causing trouble and begins ridiculing Zorro. Suddenly Zorro appears and orders Garcia at sword-point to get on the scale, which shows that Garcia supposedly weighs "only 50 pounds." After Zorro toys with the clumsy Garcia at swords for some time, soldiers appear, but since Chico and some other boys have dumped their rifles down a well, they are forced to go after Zorro with swords. Naturally, following an athletic chase through the marketplace Zorro escapes, and Hortensia looks on with admiration. Later, Hortensia returns to her home, where she finds Zorro waiting. Zorro and Hortensia talk for only a few moments before Huerta arrives. Hortensia urges Zorro to go, saying that she is afraid for him. Zorro leaves. Huerta arrives and tells his men to search the area. When Hortensia tells him that her parents aren't home, he decides to stay for a while. After Hortensia rejects Huerta's marriage proposal, he forcefully kisses her. At this, Zorro re-appears and  forces Huerta to get on his knees and beg Hortensia's forgiveness. Huerta leaves in a huff, and Zorro and Hortensia share a romantic moment. Aunt Carmen has decided to return to Spain , escorted by Kapitan von Markel. Zorro and Joaquin, knowing that Huerta will certainly have his men rob the party in the guise of bandits, secretly follow. When the party makes camp for the night, the "bandits" attack, but von Markel  fights back and drives them off, exciting the admiration  of Carmen. The "bandits" escape with the treasure, but Zorro catches up with them and steals the jewels back. Diego begins an elaborate scheme, first with a scroll note from the dog, then a ransacked dining room marked with Z's, to make it appear that Zorro is plotting to kill the Governor. After "de la Serna" takes to his bed in fear, Huerta informs Diego that he has the perfect plan to capture Zorro. He says his men will capture Hortensia, lock her in a cage and cart her around the plaza until Zorro comes to rescue her. Soldiers will be everywhere, so Zorro cannot escape. Zorro outwits them by going straight to Hortensia's cell at the prison and waiting for her to arrive. He rescues Hortensia, and stays behind to distract the guards. Zorro escapes, and overhears Huerta and Garcia. Huerta says that only one other person knew of the plan. He rides off to the governor's mansion, and Zorro manages to get back just before Huerta arrives. Huerta and Diego argue a bit about Zorro, and it is clear that Huerta is suspicious. Diego then offers himself to be bait for Zorro. The next day, Diego and Garcia go on a fishing trip. Soldiers are surrounding the area. Joaquin shows up as Zorro, and almost all the soldiers follow him. Eluding the soldiers, Joaquin rides to Brother Francisco's mission. Brother Francisco informs the children of Zorro's plan, and sends them out to different areas dressed as Zorro as distractions to the soldiers. Diego pretends to go to the carriage for a nap, but reappears as the real Zorro, telling Garcia he has the governor at gunpoint, and will "wring his neck and have him stuffed and fed to the dog" if Garcia doesn't do what he tells him. Garcia, with Zorro, arrives at a mine run by forced slave labor. He orders the guards to release them all, or else Zorro will kill the Governor. With Brother Francisco's help, the slaves are freed, and Zorro tells Garcia to leave. Hortensia arrives and tells Zorro that Huerta and the soldiers are coming. When Zorro leaves with the carriage, Hortensia holds onto the back to ride with him. Huerta and his men give chase. Zorro stops the carriage long enough to order Hortensia to leave, saying that the people need her. He kisses her, Hortensia leaves, and then Zorro drives the carriage off a cliff into the ocean. Hortensia looks over in disbelief, and Huerta arrives. Huerta says that now Nuova Aragon will have a new governor  and Hortensia, if her parents know what's best for them, will have a husband. On the day of the wedding, Brother Francisco and civilians arrive at the church in protest. Huerta orders the guards to arrest him, but they are reluctant to do so. To everyone's surprise , Zorro reappears unharmed. He battles soldiers on the roof of the church, while on the ground Kapitan von Markel assists the angry crowd in handling the soldiers. Huerta grabs a soldier's pistol and shoots Brother Francisco at point-blank range, killing him and causing a riot to break out. Huerta's armed soldiers settle the riot down, and Zorro, feeling that Brother Francisco's murder has released him from his promise to Miguel de la Serna, begins a final showdown and duel to the death with Huerta. The fight goes on for many minutes, going from the doorstep of the church to the inside. During the duel Zorro repeats Huerta's trick with the candles, only better—splitting one in half. Later on, Zorro falls out through a stained glass window and Huerta believes Zorro is dead. However, Zorro reappears in the darkness of the bell tower and the fight continues. In the meantime, the dog Assassin prevents Garcia from interfering, causing the fat sergeant to back into and fall down a well. On the roof, Huerta says that either he or Zorro must die. Zorro then says, "Well then...let it be the moment of truth." and unmasks himself. In a simultaneous lunge, Diego kills Huerta, causing him to fall from the roof. The crowd looks on stunned, then bursts into applause. Zorro then appears in a valley on his horse, and in romantic fashion, rides off. The tyrant is dead. Justice has triumphed. Long live Zorro!While sailing, Sinbad comes across a golden tablet dropped by a mysterious flying creature. He wears the tablet as an amulet around his neck. That night, Sinbad has a strange dream in which he sees a man dressed in black, repeatedly calling Sinbad's name, and also about a mysterious girl with an eye tattooed on her right palm. During his sleep, a mysterious storm throws his ship off course, and the next day Sinbad and his men find themselves near a coastal town in the country of Marabia. Swimming to the beach, Sinbad is met by a dark-cloaked man, who demands his amulet. Sinbad narrowly escapes into the city, where the city guard forces the hostile stranger to flee. Soon, Sinbad encounters the Grand Vizier of Marabia . The Vizier, who wears a golden mask to hide his disfigured face, says that Sinbad's amulet is actually one piece of a puzzle; the Vizier has another. The Vizier relates to Sinbad a legend that the three pieces, when joined together, will reveal a map showing the way to the Fountain of Destiny, hidden somewhere on the lost continent of Lemuria. The legend tells that he who bears the three pieces of the puzzle to the fountain will receive "youth, a shield of darkness, and a crown of untold riches." Sinbad agrees to help the Vizier find the fountain. They join forces against Koura , the black-cloaked man who is an evil magician bent on conquering Marabia. Koura had locked the Vizier in a room and set it on fire, horribly burning his face. The creature that dropped the gold tablet was one of Koura's minions, a homunculus created by his black magic. Using this creature he hears the conversation, and it turns to ash when it is found. Shortly afterward, Sinbad meets the girl he saw in his dream, Margiana , a slave-girl. Her master hires Sinbad to make a man of his lazy, no-good son Haroun , and Sinbad agrees on the condition that Margiana goes with him; so the two new passengers and the Vizier board Sinbad's ship. Koura hires a ship and crew of his own and follows Sinbad, using his magic several times to try to stop Sinbad. However, each attempt drains away part of his life force and he ages noticeably each time. Along his journey, Sinbad fights the wooden siren figurehead from his own ship which Koura has animated, which steals the map, enabling Koura to find the Island. Koura gets to the Island and uses another homunculus to hear the Oracle of All Knowledge {an uncredited [[Robert Shaw  as it describes to Sinbad what he will face. Koura animates a six-armed Kali idol, and Sinbad and his crew also have to contend with a one-eyed centaur, the fountain's guardian of evil who fights  the guardian of good, a griffin, with Koura's help. Once they reach the fountain, Koura obtains all the pieces, assembles the puzzle, and drops it in the fountain. His health is restored and he becomes invisible . However, he is slain in a sword duel by Sinbad, who then takes the "crown of untold riches" that rises out of the fountain and gives it to the Grand Vizier. Sinbad explains to Margiana that he values freedom more, and a king is never really free. The crown's magic powers causes the Vizer's mask to dissolve to reveal his healed face, and Sinbad journeys back to Marabia with Haroun, who has proven himself during the adventure, as a new crew member and Margiana by his side.Like in many other Monicelli movies, the main theme of Amici miei is friendship, seen from a rather bitter point of view. It tells the story of four middle-aged friends in Florence who organize together idle pranks  in a continuous attempt to prolong childhood during their adult life.  Count Mascetti  is an impoverished noble who has no means to support his family, but does not renounce high living pleasures anyway, and has an underage mistress, Titti . Perozzi  is an easy-living journalist harassed by the unceasing disapproval of his wife and his son. Melandri  is a communal architect whose main goal is to find the ideal woman. Necchi  is the owner of a café and pool hall where the friends usually plan their zingarate. During the movie they are joined by a renowned, military-like surgeon, Sassaroli , in whose clinic they recover after being hospitalized, injured after a mismanaged zingarata. Melandri falls in love with Sassaroli's wife, exclaiming "I've seen the Madonna!", only to discover she has psychological problems. The plot is mostly composed of elaborate practical jokes organized by the friends, including the creation of a fake mafia mob in whose "criminal acts" they involve a pensioner, Righi , who used to snatch croissants from the cake tray in Necchi's café, and Mascetti's attempts to save his marriage despite his relationship with Titti. The film ends with Perozzi's death, which still does not deprive the friends of their desecrating hijinks, not even in face of their own mortality; perozzi himself makes a last joke to the priest. When Perozzi's wife, criticized by Melandri for her lack of tears, comments: "One can weep if somebody dies. But here nobody has died", Mascetti replies: "Well, in reality he had never been so much, but I liked him." During the funeral procession they "homage" their dead friend by telling the wide-eyed Righi that Perozzi was killed for being a traitor to the mafia.Inder Saxena is a building contractor from Delhi with an attitude that money is the foremost thing in the world. His maternal uncle persuades a reluctant Inder to visit and supervise a project's progress at Pratapgadh. Once there, he meets his college mate Prakash , his professor Daya Shankar Sharma  & his daughter Rama . Inder sets his eyes on Rama but Prakash, secretly admiring Rama, tells Inder  that she is the kind of girl who can't be lured with the power of money. But, Inder has firm perception that women want only money, bets Prakash that he will lure Rama with his money. After each of his bag of tricks fail, he publishes a book of her poems and gifts it to her. This gesture surprises Rama and is very delighted. One day Inder asks Rama to accompany him. Rama promises him and lies to her father about seeing off Laila . Upon learning the truth, Daya Shankar unexpectedly drops in with Prakash at Inder's house, finds Rama in his bedroom and scorns her for lying. Rama leaves the house forever and while heading towards Delhi, is robbed for which she has to get down the train. Distressed Rama gets the help of Station Master Nandalal ([[Asrani , who shelters her in his house. Coincidentally, the same train meets with an accident. Assuming an unrecognizable damaged body to be Rama, the police sends a letter to Daya Shankar about her death, shocking everyone. Inder, feeling guilty for the incident, believes that Rama is alive and searches for her. Meanwhile, Rama learns singing to forget her sorrows & becomes a renowned singer. One day Inder hears her singing on radio, finds her out & informs Prakash. Eventually with all misunderstadings & differences settled, Rama & Inder come together.Accustomed to the heat of the sauna, four dead Finns enjoy their days in Hell so much that they are sent on a temporary leave back to Earth...The two main characters are Ram and Malti. Ram lives in an apartment in Mumbai. Malti initially lives in a relatively comfortable home in an unidentified village. Ram and Malti are hooked up through a matchmaker that their parents have hired. We first see the matchmaker visiting Malti's house; he then visits Ram and his family , who live together in a one-room apartment. Ram and Malti fall in love, and Ram's family visits her in her village. Soon, they are married, and Malti moves to Ram's apartment, not knowing what to expect. Since there is very little room left in the apartment, the newlyweds are forced to sleep in the kitchen. They make several comical, but failed, attempts to have some privacy. At last, Malti can bear it no longer, and her uncle arrives to take her back to the village. But when they see all her in-laws offering to move out on her account, they change their minds, saying that such love overcomes the difficulties of living in Mumbai. In the end, the couple finally finds the privacy they sought.Set in Mexico under the rule of Emperor Maximilian I, Sabata is hired by the guerrilla leader Señor Ocaño to steal a wagonload of gold from the Austrian army. However, when Sabata and his partners Escudo and Ballantine obtain the wagon, they find it is not full of gold but of sand, and that the gold was taken by Austrian Colonel Skimmel. So Sabata plans to steal back the gold.Miyashita plays an office clerk who is having an affair with her married boss. Since he refuses to leave his wife, Miyashita and another couple plan to kidnap his daughter to collect a ransom.<ref nameWeisser|firstYuko Mihara Weisser|title1998|publisherMiami|isbn498–499}}Andras Varda  grows up in a turbulent, war-torn Hungary, where he procures local girls for the occupying G.I.’s during World War II. Disappointed by the girls his age, he meets Maya , a married woman in her 30s, who tutors him in love and romance. Maya is only the first of many mature women whom Andras will meet through his teenage and young adult life.Arun ([[Sachin , the son of a Barrister, and self-proclaimed prince of the male students finds his pride and huge ego crushed when he stands second in the Terminal Examination. He lost to Lily Fernandes, the simple and modest daughter of an ordinary nurse in a private nursing home. Arun takes this as a defeat, who then decides to nurse a personal vendetta to try to and crush Lily's growing popularity in school. Lily, however, tolerates him and his friends' remarks and sarcasm as she bears no grudge against him. As time goes on, they gradually discover the basic qualities of their opponents, one becoming the admirer of the other. They visit beautiful places together on weekends to get to know each other better. Lily's mother was is first person to notice the love blossoming between her daughter and Arun. She is worried, because even though Arun was madly in love with her daughter, social status had to be considered. Despite this, Arun's father approves and presentes a proposal to Lily's mother to allow their children to marry. When everything is set up, Lily falls ill and is discovered to have leukemia. Everyone tries to save the girl, and Lily and Arun acted as if nothing was wrong. Everything seems fine for a while, but Lily's condition grew worse. She breathed her last in Arun's arms as she made him promise to rise in life so she would be at peace.Antonio Cano, 45 years old, is an important businessman who was severely injured in a car accident. Because of this, he is temporarily paralyzed and suffers memory loss. His family, friends and business associates all try to recreate scenes from his life in order to revive his memory which, little by little, does begin to return. Each day Antonio is placed in his beautiful garden where he relives many memories, both real and imagined.The film is about two brothers, Sivakumar and Kamal Haasan getting married to two women of different attitude. Sivakumar marries a foreign girl who loves Tamil culture and tradition while Kamal marries a Tamil girl who is attracted by the western culture.Based on a novel by Go Eun, the film tells the story of two students of Zen Buddhism.Synopsis from {{cite web}}A young female journalist  is researching an article on the history of Japanese women who were forced to work as prostitutes in Asian brothels during the early 20th century. She locates Osaki , an elderly woman who lives with a number of cats in a shack in a remote village. Osaki agrees to tell her life story, and the film goes into flashback to the early 1920s. A young Osaki , in an attempt to raise money for her poor family, takes a job as a maid in Sandakan, British North Borneo  at what she believes to be a hotel. The establishment is actually a brothel called Sandakan 8. Osaki works for two years as a maid, but is forced by the brothel’s owners to become a prostitute. Osaki stays at Sandakan 8 until World War II, and in that period she never experiences genuine affection outside of a brief romance with a poor farmer who abandons her when he makes his fortune. With the coming of war, Osaki is able to return to Japan, but because of her experiences at Sandakan 8 she is shunned and treated like a pariah.<ref namefeatures&Id=993 “Sandakan 8” review, Film Threat]The film tells the story of the Communist Labour College that opened in the 1960s. Long Guozheng, an emissary from the Communist government and Li Jinfeng, a female peasant student, must fight against the school's more conservative elements. In the film's climax, Li is put on trial and is about to be expelled from the school when she is saved by a pronouncement from Chairman Mao himself.
