From left, clockwise: The Ford Model T is introduced
and becomes widespread; The sinking of the RMS
Titanic causes the deaths of nearly 1,500 people and
attracts global and historical attention; CONTEXT: All
the events below are part of World War I (1914–1918);
French Army lookout at his observation post in 1917;
Russian troops awaiting a German attack; A ration party
of the Royal Irish Rifles in a communication trench
during the Battle of the Somme; Vladimir Lenin
addresses a crowd in the midst of the Russian
Revolution, beginning in 1917; The Spanish flu
pandemic in 1918 kills tens of millions worldwide.
1910s
The 1910s  (pronounced "nineteen-tens" often shortened to
the "'10s" or the "Tens") was the decade  that bega n on
January 1, 1910, and ended on December 31, 1919.
The 1910 s represe nted the culmination of European
militarism  which had its beginnings during the second half
of the 19th century . The conservative lifestyles during the
first half of the decade, as well as the legacy of military
alliances , were forever changed by the June 28, 1914
assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand , the heir
presumptive  to the Austro-Hungarian  throne. The
archduke's murder triggered a chain of events in which,
within 33 days, World War I broke out in Europe  on August
1, 1914. The conflic t dragged on until a truce  was declared
on November 11, 1918, leading to the controversial and
one-sided Treaty of Versailles , signed on June 28, 1919.
The war's end triggered the abdication  of various
monarchies  and the collapse of four of the last modern
empires of Russia , Germany , Ottoman Turkey , and Austria-
Hungary , with the latter splintered into Austria, Hungary ,
southern Poland (who acquired most of their land in a war
with Soviet Russia), Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, as
well as the unification of Romania with Transylvania and
Bessarabia.[a] However , each of these states (with the
possible exception of Yugoslavia) had large German and
Hungarian minorities, creating some unexpected problems
that would be brought to light in the next two decades.
The decad e was also a period of revolution in many countries. The Portugues e 5 October  1910 revolution , which
ended the eight-cent ury-long monarchy , spearheaded the trend, followed by the Mexican Revolution  in Novem ber
1910, which led to the ousting of dictator  Porfirio Díaz , developing into a violent civil war that dragged on until
mid-1920, not long after a new Mexican Constitution  was signed and ratified. The Russian Empire  had a similar
fate, since its partici pation in World War I led it to a social, political, and economi cal collapse which made the tsarist
autocracy  unsustainable and, succeeding the events of 1905 , culminated in the Russian Revolution  and the
establishment of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic , under the direction of the Bolshevik Party, later
renamed as the Communist Party of the Soviet Union . The Russian Revolution of 1918, known as the October
Revolution , was followed by the Russian Civil War, which dragged on until approximately late 1922. China saw
2,000 years of imperial rule ended with the Xinhai Revolution , becoming a nominal republic  until Yuan Shikai 's
failed attempt to restore  the monarchy and his death started the Warlord Era  in 1916.
Much of the music in these years was ballroom -themed. Many of the fashionable restaurants were equipped with
dance floors. Prohibition in the United States  began January 16, 1919, with the ratification  of the Eighteenth
Amendment  to the U.S. Constitution . Best-selling books of this decade  include The Inside of the Cup, Seventeen ,
Mr. Britling Sees It Thr ough , and The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse .Treaty of VersaillesDuring the 1910s, the world population  increased from 1.75 to 1.87 billion,
with approximately 640 million births and 500 million deaths in total.
World map showing all empires and colonies in 1914, just before World War I.
World W ar I (1914–1918)
The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand  of Austria-Hungary  in Sarajevo  leads to the
outbreak of the First W orld W ar.
The Armenian genocide  during and just after W orld W ar I. It was characterized by the use of
massacres  and deportations  involving forced marches  under conditions designed to lead to the
death of the deportees, with the total number of Armenian deaths generally held to have been
between one and one-and-a-half million.[1][2][3]
The Arab Revolt  was an armed uprising of Arabs  against the Ottoman Empire .
Germany  signs the Treaty of V ersailles  after losing the First W orld W ar.
Wadai W ar (1909–1911)
Italo-T urkish W ar (1911–1912)
First Balkan W ars (1912–1913) – two wars that took place in South-eastern Europe in 1912 and 1913.
Saudi-Ottoman W ar (1913)Politics and wars
WarsVladimir Lenin, Leader of
the Bolshevik Party during
the Russian RevolutionLatvian W ar of Independence  (1918–1920) – a military conflict in Latvia between the Republic of
Latvia and the Russian SFSR.
The October Revolution  in Russia  results in the overthrow of capitalism  and the establishment of the
world's first self-proclaimed socialist state ; political upheaval in Russia culminating in the
establishment of the Russian SFSR  and the assassination of Emperor Nicholas II  and the royal family .
The Russian Revolution  is the collective term for the series of revolutions in Russia  in 1917, which
destroyed the Tsarist autocracy  and led to the creation of the Soviet Union . It led to the Russian Civil
War and other conflicts such as the Finnish Civil W ar, the Ukrainian W ar of Independence  and the
Polish–Soviet W ar.
The Jallianwala Bagh massacre  (1919), at Amritsar  in the Punjab Province  of British India , sows the
seeds of discontent and leads to the birth of the Indian independence movement .
The Xinhai Revolution  causes the overthrow of China's ruling Qing dynasty , and the establishment of
the Republic of China . The Warlord Era  (1916–1928) began.
The Mexican Revolution  (1910–1920) Francsico Madero  proclaims the elections of 1910 null and void
and calls for an armed revolution at 6 p.m. against the illegitimate presidency/dictatorship of Porfirio
Díaz. The revolution led to the ousting of Díaz (who ruled from 1876 to 1880 and since 1884) six
months later . The revolution progressively became a civil war with multiple factions and phases,
culminating with the Mexican Constitution of 1917 , but combat would persist for three more years.
Portugal became the first republican country in the century after the 5
October 1910 revolution , ending its long-standing monarchy and creating
the First Portuguese Republic  in 1911.
Germany abolished its monarchy and became under the rule of a new
elected government called the Weimar Republic .
Seventeenth Amendment to the United States Constitution  is passed,
requiring US senators to be directly elected rather than appointed by the
state legislatures .
Federal Reserve Act is passed in 1913 by the United States Congress ,
establishing a Central Bank  in the US.
On the death of Edward VII , his son George V  becomes King of the United
Kingdom  and the British Dominions, and Emperor of India . The Coronation of George V and Mary
takes place on 22 June 1911.
Dissolution of the German colonial empire , Ottoman Empire , Austria-Hungary  and the Russian
Empire , reorganization of European states, territorial boundaries, and the creation of several new
European states and territorial entities: Austria , Czechoslovakia , Estonia , Finland , Free City of Danzig ,
Hungary , Latvia , Lithuania , Poland , Saar, Ukraine , and Yugoslavia .
Fourteen Points  as designed by United States President  Woodrow Wilson  advocates the right of all
nations to self-determination .
Rise to power of the Bolsheviks  in Russia under Vladimir Lenin , creating the Russian Soviet
Federated Socialist Republic , the first state committed to the establishment of communism .
The Balfour Declaration  was a declaration by the British Government that announced the British
desire to establish a Jewish homeland in Palestine. This declaration has often been characterized as
a betrayal of the Arabs and the agreement between the British and Sharif Hussein of Mecca  in the
McMahon-Hussein Correspondence  which promised freedom to all Arab lands from the Ottoman
Empire .[4][5][6]
Zionism  becomes more popular after the Balfour Declaration .
The Easter Rising  against the British  in Ireland  eventually leads to Irish independence .Internal conflicts
Major political change
Decolonization and independenceArchduke Franz
Ferdinand
Nicholas II of Russia
Sinking of the Titanic.Several nations in Eastern Europe  get their nation-state, thereby replacing major multiethnic empires.
The Republic of China  was established on January 1, 1912.
Prominent assassinations include:
March 18, 1913: George I of Greece
June 11, 1913: Mahmud Şevket Pasha , Grand V izier of the
Ottoman Empire
June 28, 1914: Archduke Franz Ferdinand  of Austria-
Hungary  is assassinated  in Sarajevo , Bosnia and
Herzegovina; prompting the events that led up to the start of
World W ar I.
July 17, 1918: Murder of the Romanov family , including
former Russian Emperor Nicholas II , his consort Alix of
Hesse , their five children, and four retainers at the Ipatiev
House  in Yekaterinburg  following the October Revolution  of
1917, and the usurpation of power by the Bolsheviks .
April 10, 1919: Emiliano Zapata  in Mexico.
The RMS Titanic , a British ocean liner  which was the largest
and most luxurious ship at that time, struck an iceberg and
sank two hours and 40 minutes later in the North Atlantic
during its maiden voyage on April 15, 1912. 1,517 people
perished in the disaster .
On May 29, 1914, the British ocean liner RMS Empress of
Ireland  collided in thick fog with the SS Storstad , a Norwegian
collier , near the mouth of Saint Lawrence River  in Canada ,
sinking in 14 minutes. 1,012 people died.
On May 7, 1915, the British ocean liner RMS Lusitania  was
torpedoed by U-20 , a German U-boat , off the Old Head of
Kinsale  in Ireland, sinking in 18 minutes. 1,199 people died.
On November 21, 1916, HMHS Britannic  was holed in an
explosion while passing through a channel that had been seeded with enemy mines and sank in 55
minutes.
From 1918 through 1920, the Spanish flu  killed from 17.4 to 100 million people worldwide.
In 1916, the Netherlands  was hit by a North Sea  storm that flooded the lowlands and killed 19 people.
From July 1 to July 12, 1916, a series of shark attacks, known as the Jersey Shore shark attacks of
1916 , occurred along the Jersey Shore, killing four and injuring one.
On January 11, 1914, Sakurajima  erupted which resulted in the death of 35 people. In addition, the
surrounding islands were consumed, and an isthmus  was created between Sakurajima and the
mainland.
In 1917, the Halifax Explosion  killed 2,000 people.
In 1919, the Great Molasses Flood  in Boston, Massachusetts killed 21 people and injured 150.Assassinations
DisastersHalifax Explosion
British World War I Mark V tankThe Panama Canal  is completed in 1914.
World W ar I from 1914 until 1918 dominates the W estern world.
Hiram Bingham  rediscovers Machu Picchu  on July 24, 1911.
Islamic  movements, such as Liberal Islam  and Islamic modernism , that reject orthodox beliefs to
varying degrees are at their most prominent position yet.[7]
Gideon Sundback  patented the first modern zipper .[8]
Harry Brearley  invented stainless steel .[9]
Charles Strite  invented the first pop-up bread toaster .[10]
The Model T Ford  dominated the automobile  market, selling more
than all other makers combined in 1914.[11]
The army tank  was invented. Tanks in W orld W ar I were used by
the British Army , the French Army  and the German Army .[12]
In 1912 articulated  trams, were invented and first used by the
Boston Elevated Railway .[13]
In 1916, Albert Einstein 's theory of general relativity .[14]
Max von Laue  discovers the diffraction  of x-rays  by crystals .[15]Other  significant international events
Science and technology
Technology
ScienceIn 1912, Alfred W egener  puts forward his theory of continental drift .[16]
In the years 1910 and 1911, there was a minor economic depression known as the Panic of 1910–
1911 , which was followed by the enforcement of the Sherman Anti-T rust Act.
Flying Squadron of America  promotes temperance movement in the United States .
Edith Smith Davis  edits the Temperance Educational Quarterly .
The first U.S. feature film , Oliver T wist, was released in 1912.
The first mob film , D. W . Grif fith's The Musketeers of Pig Alley , was released in 1912.
Hollywood, California , replaces the East Coast  as the center of the movie industry .
The first crossword puzzle  was published 21 December 1913 appearing in The New York World
newspaper .
The comic strip Krazy Kat  begins.
Charlie Chaplin  débuts his trademark mustached, baggy-pants " Little Tramp " character in Kid Auto
Races at V enice  in 1914.
The first African American  owned studio, the Lincoln Motion Picture Company , was founded in 1917.
The four Warner brothers , (from older to younger) Harry , Albert , Samuel , and Jack opened their first
major film studio in Burbank  in 1918.
Tarzan of the Apes  starring Elmo Lincoln  is released in 1918, the first Tarzan  film.
The first jazz music is recorded by the Original Dixieland Jass Band for V ictor (#18255) in late
February 1917.
The Salvation Army  has a new international leader , General Bramwell Booth  who served from 1912 to
1929. He replaces his father and co-founder of the Christian Mission (the forerunner of the Salvation
Army), William Booth .
1912 Summer Olympics  were held in Stockholm , Sweden .
1916 Summer Olympics  were cancelled because of World W ar I.
Below are the best-selling books in the United States of each year, as determi ned by The Bookman , a New York-
based literary journal (1910–1912) and Publishers W eekly  (1913 and beyond).[17]
1910: The Rosary  by Florence L. Barclay
1911: The Broad Highway  by Jeffery Farnol
1912: The Harvester  by Gene Stratton Porter
1913: The Inside of the Cup  by Winston Churchill
1914: The Eyes of the World  by Harold Bell W right
1915: The T urmoil  by Booth Tarkington
1916: Seventeen  by Booth Tarkington
1917: Mr. Britling Sees It Through  by H. G. W ells
1918: The U.P . Trail by Zane GreyEconomics
Popular  cultur e
Sports
Literature and arts1919: The Four Horseman of the Apocalypse  by Vicente Blasco Ibáñez
Pablo Picasso,
Portrait of Daniel-
Henry Kahnweiler,
1910, The Art Institute
of Chicago. Pablo
Picasso and Georges
Braque co-invent
Cubism,
revolutionizing the art
of painting and
advancing the
concepts of Modern
art and Modernism. 
Henri Matisse,
L'Atelier Rouge,
1911, oil on canvas,
162 × 130 cm., The
Museum of Modern
Art, New York City 
Marcel Duchamp,
Fountain, 1917,
Duchamp introduces
his Readymades, as
an example of Dada
and Anti-art.
Photograph by Alfred
Stieglitz 
Armory Show poster,
1913, Internationally
groundbreaking
exhibition of Modern
art
The 1913 Armory Show  in New York City was a seminal event in the history of Modern Art. Innovative
contemporaneous artists from Europe and the United States exhibited together in a massive group exhibition in New
York City , and Chicago .
Imagism
Proto-Cubism
Crystal Cubism
Orphism
Section d'Or
Synchromism
Futurism
Symbolism
Blaue Reiter
Die Brücke
Suprematism
De StijlVisual Arts
Art movements
Cubism  and related movements
Expressionism  and related movements
Geometric abstraction  and related movementsHenry FordConstructivism
Surrealism
Dada
Collage
Pablo Picasso
Georges Braque
Henri Matisse
Jean Metzinger
Marcel Duchamp
Wassily Kandinsky
Albert Gleizes
Kasimir Malevich
Giorgio de Chirico
Robert Frost
Arnold Rothstein , gangster , gambler , fixed the 1919 W orld Series
Henry Ford , founder of the Ford Motor Company
Nikola Tesla, electrical  and mechanical engineer
John Barrett , Director-general Organization of American States
George Louis Beer , Chairman Permanent Mandates Commission
Henry P . Davison , Chairman International Federation of Red Cross and
Red Crescent Societies
Sir James Eric Drummond , Secretary-general League of Nations
Emil Frey , Director International Telecommunication Union
Christian Louis Lange , Secretary-general Inter-Parliamentary Union
Baron Louis Paul Marie Hubert Michiels van V erduynen, Secretary-general Permanent Court of
Arbitration
William E. Rappard, Secretary-general International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies
Manfred von Richthofen , alias the "Red Baron", fighter pilot
Eugène Ruf fy, Director Universal Postal Union
William Napier Shaw , President World Meteorological Organization
Albert Thomas , Director International Labour OrganizationOther movements and techniques
Influential artists
People
Business
Inventors
PoliticsCharlie Chaplin
Lillian Gish
Mary PickfordGrigory Yevseyevich Zinoviev , Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Communist International
Edgar Rice Burroughs
James Joyce
Fatty Arbuckle
Theda Bara
Richard Barthelmess
Béla Bartók
Irving Berlin
Eubie Blake
Shelton Brooks
Lew Brown
Tom Brown
Anne Caldwell
Eddie Cantor
Enrico Caruso
Charlie Chaplin
Lon Chaney
George M. Cohan
Henry Creamer
Bebe Daniels
Cecil B. DeMille
Buddy De Sylva
Walter Donaldson
Marie Dressler
Eddie Edwards
Gus Edwards
Douglas Fairbanks
Fred Fisher
John Ford
Eddie Foy
George Gershwin
Beniamino Gigli
Dorothy Gish
Lillian Gish
Samuel Goldwyn
D. W . Grif fith
W. C. Handy
Otto Harbach
Lorenz Hart
Victor Herbert
Harry Houdini
Charles Ives
Tony Jackson
Emil JanningsAuthors
EntertainersBabe Ruth, 1915William Jerome
Al Jolson
Gus Kahn
Gustave Kahn
Buster Keaton
Jerome David Kern
Ring Lardner
Nick LaRocca
Harry Lauder
Florence Lawrence
Ted Lewis
Harold Lloyd
Charles McCarron
Joseph McCarthy
Winsor McCay
Oscar Micheaux
Mae Murray
Alla Nazimova
Pola Negri
Anna Q. Nilsson
Ivor Novello
Alcide Nunez
Geof frey O'Hara
Sidney Olcott
Jack Pickford
Mary PickfordArmand J. Piron
Cole Porter
American Quartet
Richard Rodgers
Sigmund Romberg
Jean Schwartz
Mack Sennett
Larry Shields
Chris Smith
Erich von Stroheim
Arthur Sullivan
Gloria Swanson
Wilber Sweatman
Blanche Sweet
Albert V on Tilzer
Harry V on Tilzer
Musicians of the Titanic
Sophie Tucker
Pete W endling
Pearl White
Bert Williams
Clarence Williams
Harry Williams
Spencer Williams
P. G. W odehouse
Mabel Normand
Babe Ruth , (American baseball  player)
Honus W agner , (American baseball  player)
Christy Mathewson , (American baseball  player)
Walter Johnson , (American baseball  player)
Ty Cobb , (American baseball  player)
Tris Speaker , (American baseball  player)
Nap Lajoie , (American baseball  player)
Eddie Collins , (American baseball  player)
Mordecai Brown , (American baseball  player)
Jim Thorpe
Jack DempseySports figures
Baseball
Olympics
BoxingJess Willard
List of decades
Edwardian Era  (commonly extended into the decade's early years).
Progressive Era  (up until late into the decade).
1910s in literature
Lost Generation  (the decade when the majority of the WWI vets came of age).
Interbellum Generation  (when the oldest members of that demographic had matured in the decade's
final year ).
