Tonight and Every Night
Directed by Victor Saville
Written by Abem Finkel
Lesser Samuels
Based on Heart of a City
1942 play
by Lesley Storm
Produced by Victor Saville
Starring Rita Hayworth
Lee Bowman
Janet Blair
Marc Platt
Cinematography Rudolph Maté
Edited by Viola Lawrence
Promotional still from the film with Rita Hayworth
as a musical theatre performer, and Jim Bannon
as a Life photographer
Tonight and Every Night
Tonight and Every Night  is a 1945 American musical
film directed by Victor Saville  and starring Rita
Hayworth , Lee Bowman  and Janet Blair .[1] The film
portrays wartime romance and tragedy  in a London
musical show , loosely modelled on the Windmill
Theatre  in Soho , that determined not to miss a single
performance during  the Blitz. Hayworth plays an
American showgirl  who falls in love with an RAF  pilot
played by Bowman.
The film was adapted from Lesley Storm 's 1942 play
Heart of a City. It was used by Columbia Pictures  as a
Technicolor  vehicle for Hayw orth after her success
with Cover Girl (1944), directed by Charles Vidor. A
major highlight of the film is Hayworth in the "You
Excite Me" number , often cited as one of her best
performances.
The film was nominated for two Academy Awards  at
the 18th Academy Awards : Best Scoring of a Musical
Picture  and Best Original Song  (for "Anywhere").
PlotMusic by Marlin Skiles
Morris Stoloff
George Duning
Distributed by Columbia Pictures
Release date January 9, 1945
Running time 92 minutes
Country United States
Language English
Hayworth and Lee Bowman as an RAF pilotNear the end of the war, a photographer from Life
magazine comes to the Music Box Theatre in London
to write a story about the music hall that neve r missed
putting on a performance during the Blitz .
Stage manager  Sam Royce recalls the halcyon days at
the beginn ing of the war: Theatrical impresario  May
"Tolly" Tolliver is rehearsing her performers when
dancer Tommy Lawson comes to audition. Although
Tommy is a naturally gifted dancer , he improvises all
his steps and consequently , Tolly refuses to hire him.
Taking pity on him, American members of the troupe, Rosalind Bruce and Judy Kane, teach him their
routines, and he wins a part in the show .
One night,  RAF  pilot Paul Lundy comes to the theater
and is infatuated with Ros. When German planes
dischar ge their bombs over the theater , the audience
and performers take refuge in the basement, and there
Paul meet s Ros and invites her to dinner . She refuses
his invitat ion, but after the raid, she and Judy stop by
the neighborhood restaurant, and Paul is waiting with
champagne. Ros begins to date him, but when he
tricks her into coming to his apartment by promising
to introduce her to a non-existent soldier from her
home town of St. Louis , she feels betrayed and
refuses to talk to him.
Desperate to see Ros, Paul convinces his group
captain to request that the Music Box troupe appear at the upcoming RAF theatrical. At the RAF show ,
Paul begs Ros to forgive him, and when he is called away on a mission, she relents and accepts his
confession of love. Tommy , who is also in love with Ros, begins to drink to dull the pain of rejection.
After returning from  his assignment, Paul tells Ros that he must leave again the next morning, and the
two plan to spend an intimate evening at Paul's apartment. When they arrive, however , they find that
Paul's building has been flattened in a German bombing raid.
The next day, Paul is planning to propos e to Ros when he is called into his ordered to leave immediately
on a secre t assignment. Two weeks pass without word from him, causing Ros to worry . One night, she
sees several flyers from his squadron, and when they tell her that the entire squadron has been on a two-
week leave, she believes that Paul has lost interest in their romance.
When Ros receives a note from Paul's father , Reverend Gerald Lundy , asking to meet her after the show
that night, she assumes that he has sent him as an emissary to terminate their relationship. She is relieved
when he explains it all and shows her a Bible that Paul had sent to him. The Reverend opens it to the page
marked by Ros's picture, showing her a highlighted passage, proposing marr iage. The Reverend then
proposes for his absent son and welcomes Ros to the family .Hayworth and choreographer Jack Cole (as an
uncredited dancer)
Advertisement (January 1945)Upon learning of Paul's proposal, Tommy jealously
predicts that Ros will desert the theater . When he
returns soon after and asks Ros to honeymoon in
Canada , she refuses to leave the troupe until Tommy
offers his congratulations and insists that she go.
Afterward, Judy, who is secretly in love with Tommy ,
goes to console him at the pub, and after drinking a
toast to Ros, they kiss. Their happiness is short-lived,
however , as a German bomb strikes the pub, killing
them both. Despite the tragedy , the night's
performance goes on, and as Ros sings Judy's song,
she determines to stay with the show .
Rita Hayworth  as Rosalind Bruce (singing voice
was dubbed by Martha Mears )
Lee Bowman  as Squadron Leader Paul Lundy
Janet Blair  as Judy Kane
Marc Platt  as Tommy Lawson
Leslie Brooks  as Angela
Professor Lamberti  as Fred, The Great W aldo
Dusty Anderson  as Toni
Stephen Crane  as Observer Leslie Wiggins
Jim Bannon  as Life Photographer
Florence Bates  as May Tolliver
Ernest Cossart  as Sam Royce
Richard Haydn  as Specialty
Philip Merivale  as Reverend Gerald Lundy
Patrick O'Moore  as David Long
C. Montague Shaw  as Old Bobby (uncredited)
Shelley Winters  as Bubbles (uncredited)
1. "Tonight and Every Night"  (https://catalog.afi.com/Catalog/moviedetails/24631) . afi.com .
Retrieved 2024-02-02 .
Tonight and Every Night  (https://www .tcm.com/tcmdb/title/93563/enwp)  at the TCM Movie
Database
Tonight and Every Night  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0038178/)  at IMDbCast
Refer ences
External links‹The template AllMovie title is being considered for deletion.› Tonight and Every Night  (https://www .all
movie.com/movie/v50369)  at AllMovie
Tonight and Every Night  (https://catalog.afi.com/Catalog/moviedetails/24631)  at the AFI
Catalog of Feature Films
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tonight_and_Every_Night&oldid=1229414371"
