From top left, clockwise: A US Navy plane flies over a Soviet cargo ship during the Cuban Missile Crisis;
Israeli tanks advancing on the Golan Heights during the Six-Day War; the Birth control pill is first
introduced, sparking the sexual revolution and the hippie movement; During the Civil rights movement ,
Martin Luther King Jr. delivers his I Have a Dream speech; the Beatles led the British Invasion of the U.S.
music market and became the most influential band in popular music history; the Prague Spring unfolds
before the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia and was part of the Protests of 1968; A U.S. infantry
patrol during the Vietnam War; During the Year of Africa, in which 16 African countries gained
independence from their European colonial rulers; Damaged homes in Chile following the 9.4–9.6 Mw
Valdivia earthquake; Biafran child starving from the mass famine caused by the Nigerian Civil War; The
Apollo 11 mission lands the first humans on the Moon; Yuri Gagarin became the first human to enter outer
space and orbit the Earth by Vostok 1; China's Mao Zedong initiates the Great Leap Forward plan which
fails and brings mass starvation in which 15 to 55 million people died by 1961, and in 1966, Mao starts the
Cultural Revolution, which purged traditional Chinese practices and ideas; John F. Kennedy is
assassinated in 1963.
1960s
The 1960s  (pronounced "nineteen-sixties", shortened to the "'60s" or the "Sixties ") was a decade that
began on January 1, 1960, and ended on December 31, 1969.[1]
While the achievements of humans being launched into space , orbiting Earth, perform spacewalk  and
walking on the Moon  extended exploration, the Sixties are known as the "countercultural decade" in the
United States and other Western countr ies. There was a revolution in social norms, including clothing,
music, drugs, dress, sexuality , formalities, civil rights , precepts of military duty, and schooling. Some
people denounce the decade as one of irresponsible excess, flamboyance, the decay of social order , andthe fall or relaxation  of social taboos. A wide range of music emer ged; from popular music inspired by
and including the Beatles  (in the United State s known as the British Invasion ), the folk music revival , to
the poetic  lyrics of Bob Dylan . In the United States the Sixties were also called the "cultural decade"
while in the United Kingdom (especially London) it was called the Swinging Sixties .
The United States had four presidents that served during the decade; Dwight D. Eisenhower , John F.
Kennedy , Lyndon B. Johnson  and Richard Nixon. Eisenhow er was near the end of his term and left office
in January  1961, and Kennedy was assassinated[2][3] in 1963. Kennedy had wanted Keynesian[4] and
staunch anti-communist  social reforms. These were passed under Johnson including civil rights for
African Americans and health care for the elderly  and the poor. Despite his large-scale Great Society
programs, Johnson was increasingly disliked by the New Left at home and abroad. For some, May 1968
meant the end of traditional collective action and the beginning of a new era to be dominated mainly by
the so-called new social movements .[5]
After the Cuban Revolution  led by Fidel Castro, the United States attempted to depose the new leader by
training Cuban exiles and invading  the island  of Cuba . This led to Cuba to ally itself to the Soviet Union,
a hostile enemy to the United States, resulting in an international crisis  when Cuba hosted Soviet ballistic
missiles similar to Turkey hosting Amer ican missiles, which brought the possibility  of causing  World War
III. However , after negotiations between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R, both agreed to withdraw their weapons
averting potential nuclear warfare .
After U.S. presiden t Kennedy's assassina tion, direct tensions between the superpower countries of the
United States and the Soviet Union developed into a contest with proxy wars , insurgency funding, puppet
governments and other overall influenc e mainly in Latin America , Africa, and Asia. This "Cold War"
dominated the world's geopolitics durin g the decade. Construction of the Berlin Wall by East Germ any
began in 1961. Africa was in a period of radical political change as 32 countries gained independence
from their European colonial rulers . The heavy-handed American role in the Vietnam War lead to an anti-
Vietnam War movement  with outraged stude nt protestors around the globe culminating in the protests of
1968 .
China  saw the end of Mao's  Great Leap Forward  in 1962 that led to many Chinese to die from the
deadliest famine in human history  and the start of the Cultural Revolution  from 1966 to 1976. Its stated
goal was to preserve Chinese communism  by purging remnants of capitalist  and traditional  elements from
Chinese society , leading to the arrests of a many Chinese politicians, the killings of millions of civilians
and ethnic minorities, and the destructio n of many historical and cultural buildings, artifacts and materials
all of which would last until the death of Mao Zedong .
By the end of the 1950s , post-war reconstructed Europe began an economic boom . World War II had
closed up social classes with remnant s of the old feudal gentry disappearing. A developing upper -
working-class (a newly redefined middle-class) in Western Europe could afford a radio, television,
refrigerator and motor vehicles. The Soviet Union  and other Warsaw Pact countries were improving
quickly after rebuilding from WWII. Real GDP  growth averaged 6% a year during the second half of the
decade; overall, the worldwide econom y prospered in the 1960s with expansion of the middle class and
the increase of new domestic technology .
In the United Kingdom, the Labour Party  gained power in 1964 with Harold Wilson  as prime minister
through most of the decade.[6] In France, the protests of 1968  led to President Charles de Gaulle
temporarily fleeing the country .[7] Italy form ed its first left-of-center government in March 1962 withThe Vietnam War (1955–1975)
The maximum territorial extent of
countries in the world under Soviet
influence, after the Cuban Revolution of
1959 and before the official Sino-Soviet
split of 1961Aldo Moro becoming  prime minister in 1963. Soviet leaders during the decade were Nikita Khrushchev
until 1964 and Leonid Brezhnev .
During the 1960s, the world population increased from 3.0 to 3.7 billion people. There were
approximately 1.15 billion births and 500 million deaths.
The Cold W ar (1947–1991)
The Vietnam W ar (1955–1975)
1961 – Substantial (approximately 700)
American advisory forces first arrive in
Vietnam .
1962 – By mid-1962, the number of U.S.
military advisers in South V ietnam  had risen
from 900 to 12,000.
1963 – By the time of U.S. president John F .
Kennedy 's death there were 16,000
American military personnel in South
Vietnam, up from Eisenhower's 900 advisors
to cope with rising guerrilla activity in
Vietnam.[8]
1964 – In direct response to the minor naval
engagement known as the Gulf of Tonkin
incident  which occurred on 2 August 1964,
the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution , a joint
resolution  of the U.S. Congress , was passed
on 10 August 1964. The resolution gave U.S.
president Lyndon B. Johnson  authorization,
without a formal declaration of war  by
Congress, for the use of military force in
Southeast Asia. The Johnson administration
subsequently cited the resolution as legal
authority for its rapid escalation of U.S.
military involvement in the V ietnam W ar.[9]
1966 – After 1966, with the draft in place
more than 500,000 troops are sent to
Vietnam  by the Johnson administration and
college attendance soars.
The Bay of Pigs Invasion  (1961) – an unsuccessful attempt by a CIA-trained force of
Cuban exiles to invade southern Cuba with support from U.S. government armed forces,
to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro.
Portuguese Colonial W ar (1961–1974) – the war was fought between Portugal's military
and the emerging nationalist movements in Portugal's African colonies . It was a decisive
ideological struggle and armed conflict of the Cold W ar in African (Portuguese Africa and
surrounding nations) and European (mainland Portugal) scenarios. Unlike otherPolitics and wars
WarsA child suffering the
effects of severe hunger
and malnutrition during
the Nigerian blockade of
Biafra 1967–1970.European nations, the Portuguese regime  did not leave its African colonies, or the
overseas provinces, during the 1950s and 1960s. During the 1960s, various armed
independence movements, most prominently led by communist -led parties who
cooperated under the CONCP  umbrella and pro-U.S. groups, became active in these
areas, most notably in Angola , Mozambique , and Portuguese Guinea . During the war ,
several atrocities were committed by all forces involved in the conflict.
The Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation  began in January 1963 and ended in August 1966.
Sino-Indian W ar of 1962 occurred between China  and India  over a border dispute.
The Indo-Pakistani W ar of 1965  began in September .
Arab–Israeli conflict  (early-20th century-present)
Six-Day W ar (June 1967) – a war between Israel and the neighboring states of Egypt ,
Jordan , and Syria . The Arab states of Iraq, Saudi Arabia , Sudan , Tunisia , Morocco  and
Algeria  also contributed troops and arms.[10] At the war's end, Israel had gained control
of the Sinai Peninsula , the Gaza Strip , the West Bank , East Jerusalem , and the Golan
Heights . The results of the war af fect the geopolitics  of the region to this day .
The Algerian W ar came to a close in 1962.
The Nigeria Civil W ar began in 1967.
Civil wars in Laos  and Sudan  rage on throughout the decade.
The Al-W adiah W ar was a military conflict which broke out on 27
November 1969, between Saudi Arabia  and the People's Republic
of South Yemen .
The massive 1960 Anpo protests  in Japan against the U.S.-Japan
Security Treaty  were the largest and longest protests in Japan's
history .[11] Although they ultimately failed to stop the treaty , they
forced the resignation of Japanese prime minister Nobusuke Kishi
and the cancellation of a planned visit to Japan by U.S. president
Dwight D. Eisenhower .[12]
The Congo Crisis  was a period of political upheaval  and conflict  in
the Republic of the Congo  between 1960 and 1965 that ended
with the establishment of a unitary state led by Mobutu Sese Seko .
The Dominican Civil W ar leads to a brief international occupation of the country and the
election of Joaquín Balaguer  as president.
The Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66  occurred as part of the Transition to the New
Order  that marked the beginning of Suharto's 31-year presidency .
Cultural Revolution in China  (1966–1976) – a period of widespread social and political
upheaval in the People's Republic of China which was launched by Mao Zedong , the
chairman of the Chinese Communist Party . Mao alleged that "liberal bourgeois" elements
were permeating the party and society at large and that they wanted to restore capitalism .
Mao insisted that these elements be removed through post-revolutionary class struggle  by
mobilizing the thoughts and actions of China's youth, who formed Red Guards  groups
around the country . The movement subsequently spread into the military , urban workers,
and the party leadership itself. Although Mao himself of ficially declared the Cultural
Revolution to have ended in 1969, the power struggles and political instability between 1969
and the arrest of the Gang of Four  in 1976 are now also widely regarded as part of the
Revolution.
The Naxalite  movement in India began in 1967 with an armed uprising  of tribals against
local landlords in the village of Naxalbari , West Bengal, led by certain leaders of theInternal conflictsCommunist Party of India (Marxist) . The movement was influenced by Mao Zedong's
ideology  and spread to many tribal districts in Eastern India, gaining strong support among
the radical urban youth. After counter-insurgency operations by the police, military and
paramilitary forces, the movement fragmented but is still active in many districts.
The Troubles  in Northern Ireland began with the rise of the Northern Ireland civil rights
movement  in the mid-1960s, the conflict continued into the later 1990s.
The Six-Point movement  in Bangladesh (at the time East Pakistan). The movement gave
way to the 1969 East Pakistan  mass uprising, which released Sheikh Mujibur Rahman  from
prison and put the country on the road to liberation  in the early 1970s.
The Compton's Cafeteria Riot  occurred in August 1966 in the Tenderloin  district of San
Francisco. This incident was one of the first recorded transgender  riots in United States
history , preceding the more famous 1969 Stonewall Riots in New York City by three years.
The Stonewall riots  occurred in June 1969 in New York City . The Stonewall riots were a
series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations against a police raid that took place in the
Stonewall Inn , in the Greenwich V illage  neighborhood of New York City . They are frequently
cited as the first instance in American history when people in the homosexual community
fought back against a government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and
they have become the defining event that marked the start of the gay rights movement  in
the United States and around the world.
In 1967, the National Farmers Organization  withheld milk supplies for 15 days as part of an
effort to induce a quota system to stabilize prices.
The May 1968 student and worker uprisings in France .
Mass socialist or Communist movement in most European countries (particularly France
and Italy), with which the student-based new left was involved. The most spectacular
manifestation of this was the May student revolt of 1968 in Paris that linked up with a
general strike of ten million workers called by the trade unions; and for a few days seemed
capable of overthrowing the government of Charles de Gaulle . De Gaulle went of f to visit
French troops in Germany to check on their loyalty . Major concessions were won for trade
union rights, higher minimum wages and better working conditions.
University students protested in the hundreds of thousands against the V ietnam W ar in
London, Paris, Berlin and Rome.
In Eastern Europe students also drew inspiration from the protests in the W est. In Poland
and Yugoslavia  they protested against restrictions on free speech by communist  regimes.
The Tlatelolco massacre  – was a government massacre of student and civilian protesters
and bystanders that took place during the afternoon and night of 2 October 1968, in the
Plaza de las Tres Culturas  in the Tlatelolco  section of Mexico City .
Prominent coups d'état  of the decade included:
On 27 May 1960, a coup in Turkey  led by Cemal Gürsel  and Cemal Madanoğlu  overthrew
the government of Adnan Menderes .
On 16 May 1961, a coup in South Korea  led by army of ficer Park Chung Hee  made the
establishment of temporary military rule.
In 1963, a coup  in South V ietnam  leads to the death of President Ngô Đình Di ệ m and the
establishment of temporary military rule.
On 31 March and 1 April 1964, a military coup  in Brazil overthrows President João Goulart
and starts a 21-year period of military dictatorship .
On 21 April 1967, in Greece a group of colonels established a military dictatorship  for seven
years.CoupsPictures of Soviet
missile silos in Cuba,
taken by United States
spy planes on 1
November 1962.In 1968, a coup in Iraq  led to the overthrow of Abdul Rahman Arif by the Arab Socialist
Baath Party .
On 1 September 1969, a small group of military of ficers led by the army of ficer Muammar
Gaddafi  overthrows  monarchy in Libya .
The Cuban Missile Crisis  ( 16–28 October 1962) – a near-military
confrontation between the U.S. and the Soviet Union about the
presence of Soviet missiles in Cuba . After an American Naval
(quarantine) blockade of Cuba the Soviet Union under the
leadership of Nikita Khrushchev  agreed to remove their missiles
from Cuba in exchange for the U.S. removing its missiles from
Turkey .
On 13 February 1960, France detonated its first atomic bomb .
France possessed a hydrogen bomb  by 1968.
On 16 October 1964, China detonated its first atomic bomb . China
possessed a hydrogen bomb  by 1967.
The transformation of Africa from colonialism  to independence in what is known as the
decolonisation of Africa  dramatically accelerated during the decade, with 32 countries
gaining independence between 1960 and 1968, marking the end of the European empires
that once dominated the African continent. However , many of these new post-colonial states
would struggle with internal and external issues including famine, corruption, genocide,
disease, and violent conflicts in the 1960s and succeeding decades.[13] Many of these
issues were caused or exacerbated by American and Soviet involvement during the Cold
War with each side supporting various strongmen, dictators, and guerillas favorable to their
causes in these countries.[14][15] Economic development  on the continent has been dif ficult,
but many nations who decolonized in the 1960s began to see a rebound and unprecedented
growth in the first quarter of the 21st century . As a whole, Africa's GDP  rose by an average
of over 6% a year between 2013 and 2022, a rate only outpaced by China.[16][17]
1960 – 1960 United States presidential election  – The very close campaign was the series
of four Kennedy–Nixon debates; they were the first presidential debates held on television.
Kennedy won a close election.
1961 – President John F . Kennedy  promised some more aggressive confrontation with the
Soviet Union; he also established the Peace Corps .
1963 – Betty Friedan  published the book The Feminine Mystique , reawakening the feminist
movement and being largely responsible for its second wave.
1963 – Civil rights becomes a central issue as the Birmingham campaign  and Birmingham
riot lead to President Kennedy's Civil Rights Address , Martin Luther King Jr .'s "I Have aNuclear threats
Decolonization and independence
Prominent political events
North America
United StatesMartin Luther King Jr. and others at
the March on Washington in 1963Dream " speech at the March on W ashington  on 6 August
and the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing .
1963 – Kennedy was assassinated and replaced by V ice
President Lyndon B. Johnson . The nation was in shock.
For the next half-century , conspiracy theorists concocted
numerous alternative explanations to the of ficial report
that a lone gunman killed Kennedy .
1964 – Johnson pressed for civil rights  legislation. Civil
Rights Act of 1964  signed into law by President L yndon
B. Johnson. This landmark piece of legislation in the
United States outlawed racial segregation  in schools,
public places, and employment. The first black riots
erupt in major cities.
1964 – Johnson was reelected over Conservative
spokesman Senator Barry Goldwater  by a wide landslide; Liberals gained full control of
Congress.
1964 – The Wilderness Act was signed into law by President L yndon B. Johnson on 3
September .
1965 – After the events of the Selma to Montgomery marches , the National V oting Rights
Act of 1965  was lobbied for (and then signed into law) by President L yndon B. Johnson. The
Voting Rights Act outlawed discriminatory voting practices that had caused the widespread
disenfranchisement of African Americans in the United States.
1968 – U.S. president Richard M. Nixon  was elected, defeating V ice President Hubert H.
Humphrey , in November .
1969 – U.S. president Richard Nixon  was inaugurated in January 1969; he promised "peace
with honor" to end the Vietnam W ar.
The Quiet Revolution  in Quebec altered the province-city-state into a more secular society .
The Jean Lesage Liberal  government created a welfare state ( État-Providence ) and
fomented the rise of active nationalism among Francophone French-speaking Quebecer
Québécois.
On 15 February 1965, the new flag of Canada  was adopted in Canada after a much-
anticipated debate known as the Great Canadian flag debate .
In 1960, the Canadian Bill of Rights  becomes law and suf frage (as well as the right for any
Canadian citizen to vote) was finally adopted by John Diefenbaker's Progressive
Conservative government. The new election act allowed First Nations  people to vote for the
first time.
The student and New Left  protests in 1968 coincided with political upheavals in a number of
other countries. Although these events often sprung from completely dif ferent causes, they
were influenced by reports and images of what was happening in the United States and
France.[18]
British prime minister Harold Macmillan  delivered his " Wind of Change " speech in 1960.Canada
Mexico
EuropeBy the late 1960s,
Argentine revolutionary
Che Guevara's famous
image had become a
popular symbol of
rebellion for the New
Left
East German construction workers
building the Berlin Wall, 20 November
1961The government of the East Germany  authorized construction of
the Berlin W all on 13 August 1961 to prevent East Germans from
leaving East Berlin  to West Berlin .[19]
Pope John XXIII  calls the Second V atican Council  of the Catholic
Church, continued by Pope Paul VI  (after John XXIII died in 1963),
which met from 11 October 1962 until 8 December 1965.[20]
In October 1964, Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev  was expelled
from of fice due to his increasingly erratic and authoritarian
behavior . Leonid Brezhnev  and Alexei Kosygin  then became the
new leaders of the Soviet Union.[21]
In Czechoslovakia , 1968 was the year of Alexander Dubček 's
Prague Spring , a source of inspiration to many W estern leftists
who admired Dubček's "socialism with a human face". The Soviet
invasion of Czechoslovakia  in August ended these hopes and also
fatally damaged the chances of the orthodox communist parties
drawing many recruits from the student protest movement.[22]
The Cultural Revolution  (1966–1976) and the Sino-
Soviet split  (1961–1989)
1966 marked the beginning of the Cultural
Revolution that was launched by Mao Zedong
and lasted until his death in 1976. The goal of
the revolution was to preserve Chinese
communism by purging Chinese society of its
traditional and remaining capitalist elements.
Though it failed to achieve its main objectives,
the revolution marked the ef fective return of Mao
to the center of power .
Following Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev's removal from power in 1964, Sino-Soviet
relations devolved into open hostility . The Chinese were deeply disturbed by the Soviet
suppression of the Prague Spring  in 1968 as the latter now claimed the right to intervene
in any country it saw as deviating from the correct path of socialism. In March 1969,
armed clashes took place along the Sino-Soviet border  in the former Manchuria and this
finally drove the Chinese to restore relations with the U.S. as Mao Zedong decided that
the Soviet Union posed the bigger threat to China.
A literary and cultural movement started in Calcutta , Patna  and other cities by a group of
writers and painters who called themselves "Hungryalists", or members of the Hungry
generation . The band of writers wanted to change virtually everything and were arrestedAsia
China
Indiawith several cases filed against them on various charges; they ultimately won these
cases.[23]
President Sukarno  banned the Masyumi Party  on 15 August 1960 and caused a tension the
between government and Islamist groups.[24]
The Transition to the New Order  (1965–1968)
In the early hours of 1 October 1965, a group of army of ficers  launched a coup d'état
attempt in Jakarta , assassinated six senior Indonesian Army  generals and a junior army
officer. They also seized Merdeka Square  and proclaimed the establishment of "the
Revolutionary Council" through a radio broadcast later in the morning, with Lieutenant
Colonel Untung Syamsuri  as its leader .
On the same day , Major General Suharto  successfully persuaded the soldiers on
Merdeka Square to join forces with the Indonesian Army Strategic Reserve Command
divisions and launched a counterattack on the movement, ending the coup attempt.
Three days later , the bodies of seven army of ficers were found buried in an old well in
Lubang Buaya  and the bodies were recovered.
In the aftermath of the coup d'état attempt, the people blamed the attempt on the
Communist Party of Indonesia , prompting a mass purge  against leftists and communist
sympathizers across the country . Around 500,000-1,000,000 casualties were
massacred. The killings were mostly done by the locals with the help of the Army .
Soon, mass demonstrations and protests from the Indonesian Students' Action Front
against President Sukarno's government  occurred. President Sukarno was notorious for
his friendly approach towards the leftists, particularly the Communist Party of Indonesia.
In the climax of the protests, President Sukarno signed the Supersemar  on 11 March
1966, ef fectively transferring authority to Major General Suharto to restore order and
ensure security in the country . On 12 March 1967, President Sukarno was stripped of his
political power by the Provisional People's Consultative Assembly  (MPRS) and Major
General Suharto became acting president . Later , he became president formally  on 27
March 1968. Sukarno lived under house arrest until his death in June 1970.
The Japanese economic miracle  (1960s–1990s)
Japan's remarkable economic growth between the post- World W ar II era and the end of
the Cold W ar. During the economic boom, Japan rapidly became the world's second-
largest economy  at the time (after the United States).
In 1960, Japan was wracked by the massive Anpo protests  against the revision of the
U.S.-Japan Security Treaty , resulting in the resignation of Prime Minister Nobusuke
Kishi ; Kishi's successor , Hayato Ikeda , began implementing economic policies, known
as the Income Doubling Plan  removed most of Japan's anti-monopoly laws and
promised to double the size of Japan's economy within 10 years. Eisaku Satō  became
Prime Minister of Japan four years later , succeeding Ikeda due to health issues.
The 1964 Summer Olympics  were held in Japan, the first time the country hosted them
and the first time that the Olympic Games  were held in Asia. The world's first bullet train
(the Tōkaidō Shinkansen  between Tokyo Station  and Shin-Ōsaka Station ) commences
operations; it is the oldest high-speed rail system in the world.
The Second  and Third Republics of Korea  (1960–1972)Indonesia
Japan and South KoreaGamal Abdel Nasser,
African leaderThe April Revolution  were mass protests in South Korea  against President Syngman
Rhee  and the First Republic  from 11 to 26 April 1960, which led to Rhee's resignation.
The Second Republic was established as a parliamentary government  under President
Yun Bo-seon  and Prime Minister Chang Myon . The Second Republic ended the First
Republic, formed a liberal democracy , and formulated the first Five-Y ear Plans  to
develop the formerly-neglected economy .
The May 16 coup  and the establishment of the SCNR , led by Major General Park Chung
Hee on 16 May 1961, put an ef fective end to the Second Republic. Park was one of a
group of military leaders who had been pushing for the de-politicization of the military .
The Miracle on the Han River  began with the Five-Y ear Plans of South Korea , a series of
economic development projects implemented by President Park Chung Hee. South
Korea received US$800 million from Japan under property claims and was mostly
dependent on foreign aid  (largely from the U.S. in exchange for South Korea's
involvement in the Vietnam W ar).
South Korea's first diplomatic relations with Japan were established under the Third
Republic and South Korea-Japan relations  were normalized in the Treaty on Basic
Relations  signed on 22 July 1965 and in an agreement ratified on 14 August 1965.
Japan agreed to provide a large amount of compensation, grants, and loans to South
Korea and the two countries began economic and political cooperation.
On 1 September 1969, the Libyan  monarchy was overthrown and
a radical, revolutionary government headed by dictator Muammar
Gaddafi  took power .
On 1 October 1960, Nigeria  gained its independence from Great
Britain.
In 1964, a successful coup  against the democratically elected
government of Brazilian  president João Goulart  initiated a military
dictatorship that caused over 20 years of oppression.
The Argentine  revolutionary Ernesto "Che" Guevara  travelled to
Africa and then Bolivia  in his campaign to spread worldwide
revolution. He was captured and executed in 1967 by the Bolivian
army and afterwards became an iconic figure for leftists around
the world.
Juan V elasco Alvarado  took power by means of a coup in Peru  in 1968.
During the 1960s the United States was in the postwar economic boom . The 1960s are remembered as a
time period of rapid  workforce growth (roughly 33% between February 1961 and December 1969),[25]
tax cuts, low unemploymen t,[26][27] rapid GDP  growth, gains in productivit y and generally low inflation.
After the Recession of 1960–1961  the United States experienced sustained rapid economic growth whichAfrica
South America
Economics
The United StatesPatrice
Lumumba
John F.
Kennedybegan in February 1961 and ended with the Recession of 1969–1970 . It lasted a total of 106 months,
which made it the longest recorded economic expansion in the history of the United States until the 1990s
United States boom .
On Januar y 20, 1961, John F. Kennedy became the president of the United States. In his campaign, John
F. Kennedy promised to "get America moving again." His goal was economic growth of 4–6% per year
and unem ployment below 4%.To do this, he proposed a wide range of policies which embraced
Keynesian economic s (which he is the first president to do so). Among these policies included a 7% tax
credit for businesse s that invest in new plants and equipment,  Income tax cuts and an increase in the
federal minimum wage.
Although, the 1960s were not perfect. The government routinely produced fiscal deficits (as a result of
the tax cuts and increased expenditure embarked under Kennedy), with only one surplus during this time
period (as opposed to the 1950s which produced 3).[28] Furtherm ore, by 1966 inflation began to climb,
which is a general trend that continue d into the 1970's . By the end of the decade under Nixon, the
combined inflation and unemployment  rate known as the misery index (econ omics)  had exploded to
nearly 10% with inflation at 6.2% and unemployment at 3.5% and by 1975 the misery index was almost
20%.[29] By the end of the decade, median family income had risen from $8,540 in 1963 to $10,770 by
1969.[30]
Prominent assassinations, tar geted killings, and assassination attempts include:Assassinations and attemptsMartin Luther
King, Jr.Date Description
12 October 1960Inejiro Asanuma, leader of the Japan Socialist Party, was stabbed
to death by far-right ultranationalist Otoya Yamaguchi while
speaking in a televised political debate in Tokyo.[31][32]
17 January 1961Patrice Lumumba, the Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of
the Congo; Maurice Mpolo, Minister of Youth and Sports; Joseph
Okito, vice-president of the Senate, were assassinated by a Belgian
and Congolese firing squad outside Lubumbashi.[33]
30 May 1961Rafael Trujillo, dictator of the Dominican Republic for 31 years, was
assassinated in a plot led by members of his general staff.[34]
13 January 1963Sylvanus Olympio, the Prime Minister of Togo, was killed during the
1963 Togolese coup d'état. His body was dumped in front of the
U.S. embassy in Lomé.[35]
2 November 1963Ngô Đình Di ệ m, 1st president of South Vietnam, along with his
brother and chief political adviser Ngô Đình Nhu, was assassinated
in a coup led by elements of the South Vietnamese Army.[36]
22 November 1963John F. Kennedy, 35th president of the United States, was shot to
death while riding in a motorcade through Dealey Plaza in Dallas,
Texas. His assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, was himself murdered by
Jack Ruby two days later.[37]
21 February 1965Malcolm X, an American civil rights leader, was shot to death in
Manhattan. The perpetrators of the killing are disputed.[38]
6 September 1966Hendrik Verwoerd, Prime Minister of South Africa and architect of
apartheid, was stabbed to death by Dimitri Tsafendas, a
parliamentary messenger, at the South African House of
Assembly.[39]
9 October 1967Che Guevara, an Argentine-Cuban Marxist revolutionary, was
executed by the CIA and Bolivian army.[40]
4 April 1968Martin Luther King Jr., American civil rights leader, was shot to
death in Memphis, Tennessee.[41]
5 June 1968Robert F. Kennedy, former Attorney General and a leading 1968
Democratic presidential candidate, was shot to death in Los
Angeles following a speech regarding his victory in California.[42]
Natural:
The 1960 V aldivia earthquake , also known as the Great Chilean earthquake, is to date the
most powerful earthquake ever recorded, rating 9.5 on the moment magnitude scale. It
caused localized tsunamis that severely battered the Chilean coast, with waves up to 25
meters (82 ft). The main tsunami raced across the Pacific Ocean and devastated Hilo,
Hawaii .
1963 Skopje earthquake  was a 6.1 moment magnitude earthquake which occurred in
Skopje, SR Macedonia (present-day Republic of Macedonia) on 26 July 1963, which killed
over 1,070 people, injured between 3,000 and 4,000 and left more than 200,000 people
homeless. About 80% of the city was destroyed.
1963 – Vajont dam disaster  – The V ajont dam flood in Italy was caused by a mountain
sliding in the dam and causing a flood wave that killed approximately 2,000 people in theDisasterstowns in its path.
1964 – The Good Friday earthquake , the most powerful earthquake recorded in the U.S.
and North America, struck Alaska  and killed 143 people.
1965 – Hurricane Betsy  caused severe damage to the U.S. Gulf Coast, especially in the
state of Louisiana .
1969 – The Cuyahoga River  caught fire in Ohio. Fires had erupted on the river many times,
including 22 June 1969, when a river fire captured the attention of Time magazine, which
described the Cuyahoga as the river that "oozes rather than flows" and in which a person
"does not drown but decays." This helped spur legislative action on water pollution control
resulting in the Clean W ater Act, Great Lakes W ater Quality Agreement, and the creation of
the federal Environmental Protection Agency .
1969 – Hurricane Camille  hit the U.S. Gulf Coast at Category 5 Status. It peaked and made
landfall with 175 mph (280 km/h) winds and caused $1.42 billion (1969 USD) in damages.
Non-natural:
On 16 December 1960, a United Airlines  DC-8 and a Trans W orld Airlines  Lockheed
Constellation collided over New York City  and crashed, killing 134 people.
On 15 February 1961, Sabena Flight 548  crashed on its way to Brussels, Belgium, killing all
72 passengers on board and 1 person on the ground. Among those killed were all 18
members of the US figure skating team, on their way to the W orld Championships.
On 16 March 1962, Flying Tiger Line Flight 739 , a Lockheed Super Constellation,
inexplicably disappeared over the W estern Pacific, leaving all 107 on board presumed dead.
Since the wreckage of the aircraft is lost to this day , the cause of the crash remains a
mystery .
On 3 June 1962, Air France Flight 007 , a Boeing 707, crashed on takeof f from Paris. 130
people were killed in the crash while 2 survived.
On 20 May 1965, PIA Flight 705  crashed on approach to Cairo , Egypt. 121 died while 6
survived.
On 4 February 1966, All Nippon Airways Flight 60 , a Boeing 727, plunged into Tokyo Bay  for
reasons unknown. All 133 people on board died.
On 5 March 1966, BOAC Flight 911  broke up in mid-air and crashed on the slopes of Mount
Fuji. All 124 aboard died.
On 8 December 1966, the car ferry SS Heraklion  sank in the Aegean Sea  during a storm,
killing 217 people.
On 16 March 1969, a DC-9 operating Viasa Flight 742  crashed in the V enezuelan city of
Maracaibo . A total of 155 people died in the crash.
In the second half of the decade, young  people began to revolt against the conservative norms of the old
time, as well as remove themselves from mainstream liberalism, in particular the high level of
materialism which was so common during the era. This created a "countercult ure" that sparked a social
revolution througho ut much of the Western world. It began in the United States as a reaction against the
conservatism and social conformity  of the 1950s, and the U.S. govern ment's extensive military
intervention in Vietnam. The youth involved in the popular social aspects of the movement became
known as hippies . These groups created a movement toward liberation in society , including the sexual
revolution , questioning authority and government , and demanding more freedoms and rights for womenSocial and political movements
Counterculture and social revolutionA demonstrator offers a flower to
military police guarding the
Pentagon during the National
Mobilization Committee to End the
War in Vietnam's 21 October 1967
March on the Pentagon
Leaders of the civil rights movement's
28 August 1963, March on Washington
in front of the statue of Abraham Lincolnand minorities. The Under ground Press , a widesp read, eclectic collection of newspapers served as a
unifying medium for the counterculture. The movement was also marked by the first widespread, socially
accepted drug use (including LSD  and marijuana ) and psychedelic  music.
The war in Vietnam  would eventually lead to a commitment of
over half a million  American troops, resulting in over 58,500
American deaths and producing a large-scale antiwar movement in
the United States. As late as the end of 1965, few Americans
protested the American involvement in Vietnam, but as the war
dragged on and the body count continued to climb, civil unrest
escalated. Students became a powerful and disruptive force and
university campuses sparked a national debate over the war. As the
movement's ideals spread beyond college campuses, doubts about
the war also began to appear within the administration itself. A
mass movement began rising in oppos ition to the Vietnam War,
including the National Mobilization to End the War in Vietnam 's
1967 march to the United Nations and its March on the Pentagon ,
the 1968 Democratic National Convention protests  at which the
slogan "The whole world is watching " became famous, and
continuing in the massive Moratorium  protests in 1969 as well as
the movem ent of resistance to conscription  ("the Draft") for the
war.
The antiwar movement  was initially based on the older 1950s Peace movement , heavily influenced by the
American Commun ist Party , but by the mid-1960s it outgrew this and became a broad-based mass
movement centered in universities and churches: one kind of protest was calle d a "sit-in ". Other terms
heard in the United States included "the Draft ", "draft dodger ", "conscientious objector ", and "Vietnam
vet". Voter age-limits were challenged by the phrase: "If you're old enough to die for your country , you're
old enough to vote."
Beginning in the mid-1950s and continuing into the late 1960s,
African Americans  in the United States organized a movement
to end legalized racial discrimination  and obtain voting rights .
This article covers the phase of the movement between 1955
and 1968, particularly in the South. The emer gence of the
Black Power movement , which lasted roughly from 1966 to
1975, enlar ged the aims of the civil rights movement to include
racial dignity , economic  and political  self-suf ficiency , and anti-
imperialism .
The movement was characterized by major campaigns of civil
resistance . Between 1955 and 1968, acts of civil disobedience
and nonviolent  protest produced crisis situations betweenAnti-war movement
Civil rights movementactivists and government authorities. Federal, state, and local governments, businesses, and communities
often had to respond immediately to these situations that highlighted the inequities faced by African
Americans. Forms of protest and/or civil disobedience included boycotts such as the successful
Montgomery bus boycott  (1955–1956) in Alabama, sit-ins  such as the influential Greensboro sit-ins
(1960) in North Carolina, marches  such as the Selma to Montgomery marches  (1965) in Alabama , and
other nonviolent activities.
Noted legislative achievements during this phase of the civil rights movement were passage of Civil
Rights Act of 1964[43] that bann ed discrim ination based on "race, color , religion, or national origin" in
employment practic es and public accommodations, the Voting Rights Act of 1965  that restored and
protected voting rights, the Immigration and Nationality Services Act of 1965  that dram atically opened
entry to the U.S. to immigrants other than traditional European groups, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968
that banned discrimination in the sale or rental of housing.
Another large ethnic minority group, the Mexican-Americans , are among other Hispanics  in the U.S. who
fought to end racial discrimination and socioeconomic disparity . The largest Mexican-American
populations were in the Southwestern United States, such as California with over 1 million Chicanos  in
Los Ange les alone, and Texas where Jim Crow  laws included Mexican-Americans as "non-white" in
some instances to be legally segregated.
Socially , the Chicano Movement  addressed what it perceived to be negative ethnic stereotypes  of
Mexicans in mass media and the American consciousness. It did so through the creation of works of
literary and visual art that validated Mexican-American ethnicity and culture . Chicanos fought to end
social stigmas such as the usage of the Spanish language and advocated official bilingualism  in federal
and state governments.
The Chicano Movement also addressed  discrimination in public and private institutions. Early in the
twentieth century , Mexican Americans formed organizations to protect themselves from discrimination.
One of those organizations, the League of United Latin American Citizens , was formed in 1929 and
remains active today .[44]
The move ment gained momentum after World War II when groups such as the American G.I. Foru m,
which was formed by returning Mexic an American veterans, joined in the efforts by other civil rights
organizations.[45]
Mexican-American civil-rights activists achieved several major legal victories including the 1947 Mendez
v. Westminster  U.S. Supreme Court  rulin g which decla red that segregating children of "Mexican and
Latin descent" was unconstitutional and the 1954 Hernandez v. Texas ruling which declar ed that Mexican
Americans and other racial groups in the United States were entitled to equal protection under the 14th
Amendment  of the U.S. Constitution .[46][47]
The most prominent civil-rights organization in the Mexican-American community , the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Education al Fund  (MALDEF), was founded in 1968.[48] Although modeled
after the NAACP  Legal Defense and Educational Fund , MALDEF has also taken on many of the
functions of other or ganizations, including political advocacy and training of local leaders.Hispanic and Chicano movementMeanwhile, Puerto Ricans  in the U.S. mainland fought against racism, police brutality and
socioeconomic problems affecting the three million Puerto Ricans residing in the 50 states. The main
concentration of the population was in New York City .
In the 1960s and the following 1970s, Hispanic-American culture was on the rebound like ethnic music,
foods, culture and identity both became popular and assimilated into the American mainstream. Spanish-
language television networks, radio stations and newspapers increased in presence across the country ,
especially in U.S.–Mexican border towns and East Coast cities like New York City, and the growth of the
Cuban American  community in Miami, Florida.
The multi tude of discrimination at this time represented an inhuman side to a society that in the 1960s
was upheld as a world and industry leader. The issues of civil rights and warfar e became major points of
reflection of virtue and democracy , what once was viewed as traditional and inconsequential was now
becoming the significance in the turning point of a culture. A document known as the Port Huron
Statement exemplifi es these two conditions perfectly in its first hand depiction, "while these and other
problems either directly oppressed us or rankled our consciences and became our own subjective
concerns, we began to see complicated and disturbing paradoxes in our surrounding America. The
declaration "all men are created equal... " rang hollow before the facts of Negro life in the South and the
big cities of the North. The proclaimed peaceful intentions of the United States contradicted its economic
and milita ry investments in the Cold War status quo." These intolerable issues became too visible to
ignore therefore its repercussions were feared greatly , the realization that we as individuals take the
responsibility for encounter and resolution in our lives issues was an emer ging idealism of the 1960s.
A second wave of feminism in the United States and around the world gained momentum in the early
1960s. While the first wave of the early 20th century was centered on gaining suffrage and overturning de
jure inequalities, the second wave was focused on changing cultural and social norms and de facto
inequalities associated with women. At the time, a woman's place was generally seen as being in the
home, and they were excluded from many jobs and professions. In the U.S., a Presidential Commission
on the Status of Women  found discrimination against women in the workplace and every other aspect of
life, a revelation which launched two decades of prominent women-centered legal reforms (i.e., the Equal
Pay Act of 1963 , Title IX, etc.) which broke down the last remai ning legal barriers to women's personal
freedom and professional success.
Feminists took to the streets, marching and protesting, authoring books and debating to change social and
political views that limited women. In 1963, with Betty Friedan 's book, The Feminine Mystique , the role
of women in society , and in public and private life was questioned. By 1966, the movement was
beginning to grow in size and power as women's group spread across the country and Friedan, along with
other feminists, founded the National Organization for Women . In 1968, "Women's Liberation " became a
household term as, for the first time, the new women's movement eclipsed the civil right s movement
when New York Radical Women , led by Robin Morgan, protested the annual Miss America pageant in
Atlantic City, New Jersey . The movement continued throughout the next decades. Gloria Steinem  was a
key feminist.Second-wave feminism
Gay rights movementThe United States, in the middle of a social revolution, led the world in LGBT  rights in the late 1960s and
early 1970 s. Inspired by the civil-rights movement and the women's movement, early gay-rights pioneers
had begun, by the 1960s, to build a movement. These groups were rather conservative in their practices,
emphasizing that gay men and women are no differ ent from those who are straight  and deserve full
equality . This philos ophy would be dominant again after AIDS, but by the very end of the 1960s, the
movement's goals would change and become more radical, demanding a right to be different, and
encouraging gay pride .
The symb olic birth of the gay rights  movement  would not come until the decade had almost come to a
close. Gays were not allowed by law to congregate. Gay establishments such as the Stonewall Inn in New
York City were routinely raided by the police to arrest gay people. On a night in late June 1969, LGBT
people resisted, for the first time, a police raid, and rebelled openly in the streets. This uprising called the
Stonewall riots began a new period of the LGBT  rights movement that in the next decade would cause
dramatic change both inside the LGBT  community and in the mainstream American culture.
The rapid rise of a "New Left" applied the class perspective of Marxism  to postwa r America but had little
organizational connection with older Marxist organizations such as the Communist Party , and even went
as far as to reject organized labor as the basis of a unified left-wing movem ent. Sympathetic to the
ideology of C. Wright Mills , the New Left differed from the traditio nal left in its resistance to dogma and
its emphasis on personal as well as societal change. Students for a Democratic Society  (SDS) became the
organizational focus of the New Left and was the prime mover behind the opposition to the War in
Vietnam. The 1960s left also consisted of ephemeral campus-based Trotskyist , Maoist  and anarchist
groups, some of which by the end of the 1960s had turned to militancy .
The 1960s was also associated with a large increase in crime and urban unrest of all types. Between 1960
and 1969 reported incidence of violent crime per 100,000 people in the United States nearly doubled and
have yet to return to the levels of the early 1960s.[49] Large riots broke out in many cities like Chicago,
Detroit, Los Angeles , New York City, Newark, New Jersey , Oakland, California  and Washington, D.C. By
the end of the decade, politicians like Geor ge Wallace  and Richard Nixon  campaigned on restoring law
and order to a nation troubled with the new unrest.
The Space Race  between the United States and the Soviet Union dominated the 1960s. The Soviets sent
the first man, Yuri Gagarin , into outer space  during the Vostok 1 mission on 12 April 1961, and scored a
host of other successes, but by the middle of the decade the U.S. was taking  the lead. In May 1961,New Left
Crime
Science and technology
Science
Space explorationOn 21 December 1968, the Apollo 8 crew
took a picture, for the first time in history,
of the entire Earth
The Apollo 11 mission landed the first
humans on the Moon in July 1969.President Kennedy set the goal for the United States of
landing a man on the Moon by the end of the 1960s.
In June 1963, Valentina Tereshkova  became the first woman
in space during the Vostok 6 mission. In 1965, Soviets
launched the first probe to hit another planet of the Solar
System  (Venus), Venera 3, and the first probe to make a soft
landing on and transmit from the surface of the Moon, Luna
9. In March 1966, the Soviet Union launc hed Luna 10, which
became the first space probe  to enter orbit aroun d the Moon,
and in September 1968, Zond 5 flew the first terrestrial
beings, including two tortoises, to circumnavigate the Moon.
The deaths of astron auts Gus Grissom , Ed White , and Roger
B. Chaf fee in the Apollo 1 fire on 27 January  1967, put a
temporary hold on the U.S. space program, but afterward
progress was steady , with the Apollo 8 crew (Frank Borman,
Jim Lovell , William Anders ) being the first crewed mission to
orbit another celestial body (the Moon) during Christmas of
1968.
On 20 July 1969, the first humans landed on the Moon . The
Apollo 11 mission, launched on 16 July 1969, carried mission
Commander Neil Armstrong , Command Module Pilot
Michael Collins , and Lunar Module Pilot Buzz Aldrin , and
Aldrin and Armstro ng flew the Lunar Module Eagle  to the
lunar surface. Apollo 11 fulfilled President John F. Kennedy 's
goal of reaching the Moon by the end of the 1960s, which he
had expres sed during a speech given before a joint session of
Congress on 25 May 1961: "I believe that this nation should
commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out,
of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the
Earth."
The Sovie t program lost its sense of direction with the death of chief designer Sergey Korolyov  in 1966.
Political pressure, conflicts between different design bureaus, and engineering problems caused by an
inadequate budget would doom the Soviet attempt to land men on the Moon. Shortly after the American
Apollo 1 disaster , tragedy struck the Soviet program when cosmonaut Vladimir Komarov  was killed
when the parachutes on his Soyuz 1  flight failed.
A succession of uncrewed American and Soviet probes traveled to the Moon, Venus, and Mars  during the
1960s, and commercial satellites also came into use.
1960 – The female birth-control contraceptive, the pill , was released in the United States
after Food and Drug Administration  (FDA) approval.
1963 – The measles vaccine was released after being approved by the FDAOther scientific developmentsThe birth control pill was
introduced in 1960.
A 0 series Shinkansen high-speed
rail set in Tokyo, May 19671964 – The discovery and confirmation of the Cosmic
microwave background  in 1964 secured the Big Bang as
the best theory of the origin and evolution of the universe.
1965 – AstroT urf introduced.
1967 – First heart transplantation  operation by Professor
Christiaan Barnard  in South Africa.
1967 – Discovery of the first known pulsar  (a rapidly
spinning neutron star ).
During the late 1960s, the Green Revolution  achieved a
major leap in agricultural production, mitigating a potential
famine situation.[50]
Shinkansen , the world's first high-speed rail service began in
1964.
As the 1960s began , American cars showed a rapid rejection of
1950s styling excess, and would remain  relatively clean and boxy
for the entire decad e. The horsepower race reached its climax in
the late 1960s, with muscle cars sold by most makes. The compact
Ford Mustang , launched in 1964, was one of the decade's greatest
successes. The "Big Three " American automakers enjoyed their
highest ever sales and profitability in the 1960s, but the demise of Studebaker  in 1966 left American
Motors Corporation  as the last significant independent. The decade would see the car market split into
different size classes for the first time, and model lineups now included compact  and mid-sized  cars in
addition to full-sized  ones.
The popular modern hatchback, with front-wheel-drive and a two-box configu ration, was born in 1965
with the introductio n of the Renault 16, many of this car's design principles live on in its modern
counterparts: a large rear opening incorp orating the rear window , foldable rear seats to extend boot space.
The Mini , released in 1959, had first popularised the front wheel drive two-box configuration, but
technically was not a hatchback as it had a fold-down bootlid.
Japanese cars also began to gain acceptance in the Western market, and popular economy models such as
the Toyota Corolla , Datsun 510, and the first popular Japanese sports car, the Datsun 240Z , were released
in the mid- to late-1960s.
Mopeds and Scooters gains popularity in these decade, with Honda Super Cub in United States, Japan
and Europe, Mitsubishi Silver Pigeon  in Japan and Vespa, Kreidler Florett ,Zundapp  and Sachs  mopeds in
Western Europe.
1960 – The first working laser was demonstrated in May by Theodore Maiman  at Hughes
Research Laboratories .Technology
Automobiles and Motorcycles
Electronics and communicationsExamples of 1960s technology,
including two rotary-dial telephones
and a Kodak camera.1960 – Tony Hoare  announces the Quicksort  algorithm ,
the most common sorter on computers.
1961 – Unimate , the first industrial robot , was
introduced.
1962 – First transatlantic satellite broadcast via the
Telstar  satellite.
1962 – The first computer video game, Spacewar! , was
invented.
1962 – Red LEDs  were developed.
1963 – The first geosynchronous communications
satellite , Syncom 2 , is launched.
1963 – First transpacific satellite broadcast via the Relay
1 satellite.
1963 – Touch-T one telephones introduced.
1963 – Sketchpad  was the first touch interactive computer graphics  program.
1963 – The Nottingham  Electronic V alve company produced the first home video recorder
called the "T elcan".
1964 – 8-track tape  audio format was developed.
1964 – The Compact Cassette  was introduced.
1964 – The first successful Minicomputer , Digital Equipment Corporation 's 12-bit PDP-8 ,
was marketed.
1964 – The programming language  BASIC  was created.
1964 – The world's first supercomputer , the CDC 6600 , was introduced.
1964 – Fairchild Semiconductor  released ICs with dual in-line packaging .
1967 – PAL and SECAM  broadcast color television systems started publicly transmitting in
Europe.
1967 – The first Automatic Teller Machine  was opened in Barclays Bank , London.
1968 – Ralph Baer  developed his Brown Box  (a working prototype of the Magnavox
Odyssey).
1968 – The first public demonstration  of the computer mouse , the paper paradigm  Graphical
user interface , video conferencing , teleconferencing , email, and hypertext .
1969 – ARPANET , the research-oriented prototype of the Internet, was introduced.
1969 – CCD  invented at AT&T Bell Labs , used as the electronic imager in still and video
cameras.
The Manson murders  occurred between 8–10 August 1969 when actress Sharon Tate,
coffee heiress Abigail Folger  and several others were brutally murdered in the Tate
residence by Charles Manson 's "family ." Rosemary LaBianca  and Leno LaBianca  were also
murdered by the Manson family the following night.
Canada  celebrated its 100th anniversary of Confederation  in 1967 by hosting Expo 67  in
Montreal , Quebec . During the anniversary celebrations, French president Charles De Gaulle
visited Canada and caused a considerable uproar by declaring his support for Québécois
independence.Additional notable worldwide eventsThe Zodiac killer  first became active after murdering five known victims in the San Francisco
Bay Area between December 1968 and October 1969, operating in rural, urban and
suburban settings.
TV shows like Doctor Who, The
Ed Sullivan Show, The Andy
Griffith Show, The Addams
Family, The Fugitive, and Gene
Roddenberry's Star Trek: The
Original Series were popular in
the 1960s (the latter garnering a
much wider audience in the
following decades and
becoming a global
phenomenon). 
The Beatles (consisting of John
Lennon, Paul McCartney,
George Harrison, and Ringo
Starr) released music
throughout the 1960s, and are
often considered the most
popular band in global history.
Beatlemania was/is the
fanaticism surrounding The
Beatles. The Beatles
experienced intense fan worship
during the '60s era.
Bob Dylan is often considered to
be one of the greatest
songwriters of all time, and
through a process of mutual
influence with The Beatles and
other artists, helped define the
explosion of musical ideas in the
1960s. 
Peace symbols and flowers
were an aesthetic of the
counterculture and hippie
movements of the 1960s.Popular  cultur eAnti-war movements like the
protests of 1968 were
demonstrations and revolts
against various forms of
governmental jurisdiction and
corruption. These protests were
a major part of 1960s popular
culture. 
Hanna-Barbera cartoons such
as The Flintstones, The
Jetsons, The Huckleberry
Hound Show, The Quick Draw
McGraw Show, The Yogi Bear
Show, Wacky Races, Top Cat,
Scooby-Doo, and Jonny Quest
were popular in the 1960s.
Crowds at the stage during the
Woodstock Music Festival, two
months after the Stonewall riots
in June 1969. 
Six Olympic Games were held
in the 1960s, Squaw Valley and
Rome in 1960, Innsbruck and
Tokyo in 1964, Grenoble and
Mexico City in 1968 (all during
the Cold War).
The 1960s were the height of
the Space Age and space
aesthetics in popular culture. In
1969, humans landed on the
Moon for the first time. 
The superhero boom of the
decade saw in media and
popular culture, TV series like
Batman, The Green Hornet, The
Marvel Super Heroes, and
Spider-Man were more popular.
The counterculture movement  dominated the second half of the 1960s, its most famous moments being
the Summer of Love  in San Francisco in 1967, and the Woodstock Festival  in upstate New York in 1969.
Psychedelic drugs , especially LSD , were widely used medicinally , spiritually and recreationally
throughout the late 1960s, and were popularized by Timothy Leary  with his slogan "Turn on, tune in,The Miracles pictured in 1962.
Known as Motown's "soul
supergroup", The Miracles were one
of the first commercially successful
acts of the 1960s and propelled both
Motown and its Tamla label to
international fame.drop out". Ken Kesey  and the Merry Pranksters  also played a part in the role of "turning heads on".
Psychedelic  influ enced the music, artwork and films of the decade, and a number of prominent musicians
died of drug overdoses (see 27 Club ). There was a growing interest in Eastern religions and philosophy ,
and many attempts were made to found  communes, which varied from supporting free love to religious
puritanism.
The rock 'n' roll movement of the 1950s  quickly came to an end in
1959 with the Day the Music Died  (as explained in the song
"American Pie"), the scandal of Jerry Lee Lewis ' marriage  to his
13-year -old cousin, and the induction of Elvis Presley  into the
United States Army . As the 1960s began, the major rock 'n' roll
stars of the '50s such as Chuck Berry and Little Richard had
dropped off the charts and popular music in the U.S. came to be
dominated by girl groups, surf music , novelty pop songs,  clean-cut
teen idols, and Motown  music. Another important change in music
during the early 1960s was the American folk music revival  which
introduced Bob Dylan , Joan Baez , Pete Seege r, The Kings ton Trio,
Harry Belafonte , Odetta , Phil Ochs , and many other singer -
songwriters to the public.
Girl groups and female singers, such as the Shirelles , Betty
Everett , Little Eva, the Dixie Cups , the Ronettes , Martha and the
Vandellas  and the Supremes  dominated the charts in the early
1960s. This style consisted typically of light pop themes about
teenage romance and lifestyles, backed by vocal harmonies and a
strong rhythm. Most girl groups were African-American, but white
girl groups and singers, such as Lesley Gore , the Angels , and the Shangri-Las  also emer ged during this
period.
Around the same time, record producer Phil Spector  began producing girl groups and created a new kind
of pop music produ ction that came to be known as the Wall of Sound . This style emphas ized higher
budgets and more elaborate arrangemen ts, and more melodramatic musical themes in place of a simple,
light-hearted pop sound. Spector's innov ations became integral to the growing sophistication of popular
music from 1965 onward.
Also during the early 1960s, surf rock emer ged, a rock subgenre that was centered in Southern California
and based on beach and surfing themes, in addition to the usual songs about teenage romance and
innocent fun. The Beach Boys  quickly became the premier surf rock band and almost completely and
single-handedly overshadowed the many lesser -known artists in the subgenre. Surf rock reached its peak
in 1963–1965 before gradually being overtaken by bands influenced by the British Invasion  and the
counterculture movement.
The car song also emer ged as a rock subgenre in the early 1960s, which focused on teenagers' fascination
with car culture . The Beach Boys also dominated this subgenre, along with the duo Jan and Dean . Such
notable songs include "Little Deuce Coupe ", "409", and "Shut Down ", all by the Beach Boys; Jan andMusicThe arrival of the Beatles in
the U.S. during 1964, and
particularly their appearance
on television's The Ed
Sullivan Show, marked the
beginning of the British
Invasion in the history of
music, in which a large
number of rock and pop
music acts from the United
Kingdom gained enormous
popularity in the U.S.
Bob Dylan was the face of
the American folk music
revival of the 1960s. In
1964, Dylan was shifting
his focus to more abstract
and introspective themes,
and eventually would
adapt the use of electric
instrumentation, alienating
many in the folk crowd.
"The 60s were a leap in
human consciousness.
Mahatma Gandhi , Malcolm
X, Martin Luther King , Che
Guevara , Mother Teresa ,
they led a revolution of
conscience. The Beatles ,
The Doors , Jimi Hendrix
created revolution and
evolution themes. The
music was like Dalí, with
many colors and
revolutionary ways. The
youth of today must go
there to find themselves."
– Carlos Santana[51]Dean 's "Little Old Lady from Pasadena " and
"Drag City", Ronny and the Daytonas ' "Little
GTO", and many others. Like girl groups and
surf rock, car songs also became
overshadowed by the British Invasion and the
counterculture movement.
The early 1960s also saw the golden age of
another rock subgen re, the teen tragedy song ,
which focused on lost teen romance caused
by sudden  death, mainly in traffic accidents .
Such songs included Mark Dinning 's "Teen
Angel ", Ray Peterson 's "Tell Laura I Love
Her", Jan and Dean 's "Dead Man's Curve ",
the Shang ri-Las ' "Leader of the Pack ", and
perhaps the subgenre's most popular , "Last
Kiss" by J. Frank Wilson and the Cavaliers .
In the early 1960s, Britain became a hotbed of
rock 'n' roll activity during this time. In late
1963, the Beatles embarked on their first US
tour and cult singer Dusty Springfield
released her first solo single. A few months
later, rock 'n' roll founding father Chuck Berry emer ged from a 21⁄2-
year prison stint and resumed recording and touring. The stage was set
for the spectacular revival of rock music.
In the UK, the Beatles played raucous rock 'n' roll – as well as doo
wop, girl-group songs, show tunes – and wore leather jackets. Their
manager Brian Epstein  encouraged the group to wear suits.
Beatlemania  abruptly exploded after the group's appearance on The Ed
Sullivan Show in 1964. Late in 1965, the Beatles released the album
Rubber Soul which marked the beginning of their transition to a
sophisticated power pop group with elaborate studio arrangements and
production, and a year after that, they gave up touring entirely to focus
only on albums. A host of imitators followed the Beatles in the so-
called British Invasion, including group s like the Rolling Stones , the
Who  and the Kinks  who would become legends in their own right.
As the counterculture movement developed, artists began making new
kinds of music influ enced by the use of psychedelic drugs. Guitarist
Jimi Hendrix  emer ged onto the scene in 1967 with a radically new
approach to electric guitar that replaced Chuck Berry , previously seen as the gold standard of rock guitar .
Rock artists began to take on serious themes and social commentary/protest instead of simplistic pop
themes.A major development in popular music during the mid-1960s was the moveme nt away from singles and
towards albums. Previously , popular music was based around the 45 single (or even earlier , the 78 single)
and album s such as they existed were little more than a hit single or two backed with filler tracks,
instrumentals, and covers. The developm ent of the AOR (album-oriented rock)  format was complicated
and involved several concurrent events such as Phil Spector's Wall of Sound, the introduction by Bob
Dylan of "serious" lyrics to rock music, and the Beatles' new studio-based approach. In any case, after
1965 the vinyl LP  had definitively taken over as the primary format for all popular music styles.
Blues also continued to develop strongly during the '60s, but after 1965, it increasingly shifted to the
young white rock audience and away from its traditional black audience, which moved on to other styles
such as soul and funk.
Jazz music and pop standards  during the first half of the 1960s was largely a continuation of 1950s styles,
retaining its core audience of young, urban, college-educated whites. By 1967, the death of several
important jazz figures such as John Coltrane  and Nat King Cole  precipitated a decline in the genre. The
takeover of rock in the late 1960s largely spelled the end of jazz and standards as mainstream forms of
music, after they had dominated much of the first half of the 20th century .
Country music gained popularity on the West Coas t, due in large part to the Bakersfield sound , led by
Buck Owens  and Merle Haggard . Female country artists were also becoming more mainstream (in a
genre dominated by men in previous decades), with such acts as Patsy Cline , Loretta Lynn, and Tammy
Wynette .
Elvis Presley  returned to civilian life in the U.S. after two years away in the U.S. Army . He
resumes his musical career by recording " It's Now or Never " and " Are You Lonesome
Tonight? " in March 1960.[52]
Country music stars Patsy Cline , Cowboy Copas  and Hawkshaw Hawkins  were killed when
their plane crashed  in Camden, Tennessee while returning home from a Kansas City  benefit
show in March 1963.
In July 1964, a plane crash claimed the life of another country music legend, Jim Reeves ,
when the plane he was piloting crashed in a turbulent thunderstorm while on final approach
to Nashville International Airport .
Sam Cooke  was shot and killed at a motel (at the age of 33) in Los Angeles, California on
11 December 1964, under suspicious circumstances.
Motown  was founded in 1960. Its first Top Ten hit was " Shop Around " by the Miracles in
1960. "Shop Around" peaked at number-two on the Billboard  Hot 100  and was Motown's
first million-selling record.
Newcastle-born Eric Burdon  and his band " The Animals " hit the No. 1 in charts in the U.S.
with their hit single " The House of the Rising Sun " in 1964.
Folk singer and activist Joan Baez  released her debut album  on Vanguard Records  in
December 1960.
The Marvelettes  scored Motown's first U.S. No. 1 pop hit, " Please Mr . Postman ", in 1961.
Motown would score 110 Billboard  Top 10 hits during its run.
The Four Seasons  released three straight number one hits.
In a widely anticipated and publicized event, The Beatles  arrive in America in February
1964, spearheading the British Invasion .Significant events in music in the 1960sSimon and Garfunkel were a
popular musical duo of the eraThe Mary Poppins  original soundtrack tops record charts. Sherman Brothers  receive
Grammys  and double Oscars .
Lesley Gore  hits number one on Billboard  with " It's My Party " and number two with "Y ou
Don't Own Me" at the age of 17 (behind " I Want To Hold Your Hand " by The Beatles).
The Supremes  scored twelve number-one hit singles between 1964 and 1969, beginning
with " Where Did Our Love Go ".
The Kinks  release " You Really Got Me " in August 1964, which tops the British charts; it is
regarded as the first hard rock  hit and a blueprint for related genres such as heavy metal .[53]
John Coltrane  released A Love Supreme  in late 1964, considered one of the most
acclaimed jazz albums of the era.
The Grateful Dead  was formed in 1965 (originally The W arlocks), thus paving the way for
the emergence of acid rock .
Bob Dylan  went electric  at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival .
Cilla Black 's number-one hit " Anyone Who Had a Heart " still remains the top-selling single
by a female artist in the UK from 1964.
The Rolling Stones  had a huge No. 1 hit with their song " (I Can't Get No) Satisfaction " in the
summer of 1965.
The Byrds  released a cover of Bob Dylan's " Mr. Tambourine Man ", which reached No. 1 on
the U.S. charts and repeated the feat in the U.K. shortly thereafter . The extremely influential
track ef fectively creates the musical subgenre of folk rock .
Bob Dylan's " Like a Rolling Stone " is a top-five hit on both sides of the Atlantic during the
summer of 1965.
Bob Dylan's 1965 albums Bringing It All Back Home  and Highway 61 Revisited  ushered in
album-focused rock and the folk rock  genre.
Simon and Garfunkel  released the single " The Sound of
Silence " in 1965.
The Beach Boys  released Pet Sounds  in 1966, which
significantly influenced The Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's
Lonely Hearts Club Band  album released the following
year.
Bob Dylan was called "Judas" by an audience member
during the Manchester  Free Trade Hall concert ; the start
of the bootleg recording  industry follows, with recordings
of this concert circulating for 30 years – wrongly labeled
as The Royal Albert Hall Concert  – before a legitimate
release in 1998 as The Bootleg Series V ol. 4: Bob Dylan
Live 1966, The "Royal Albert Hall" Concert .
In February 1966, Nancy Sinatra's song " These Boots Are Made for W alkin'  " became very
popular .
In 1966, The Supremes A' Go-Go  was the first album by a female group to reach the top
position of the Billboard  magazine pop albums chart  in the United States.
The Seekers  were the first Australian group to have a number one with " Georgy Girl " in
1966.
Jefferson Airplane  released the influential Surrealistic Pillow  in 1967.
The V elvet Underground  released its self-titled debut album, The V elvet Underground &
Nico, in 1967.
The Doors  released its self-titled debut album, The Doors , in January 1967.
Love  released Forever Changes  in 1967.
The Procol Harum  released A Whiter Shade of Pale  in 1967.The Jimi Hendrix Experience
launched the mainstream
career of Jimi Hendrix, one of
the most influential electric
guitarists in historyCream  released " Disraeli Gears " in 1967.
The Jimi Hendrix Experience  released two successful albums
during 1967 ( Are You Experienced  and Axis: Bold as Love )
that innovate both guitar , trio and recording techniques.
The Moody Blues  released the album Days of Future Passed
in November 1967.
R&B legend Otis Redding  has his first No. 1 hit with " Sitting
on the Dock of the Bay ". He also played at the Monterey
International Pop Festival  in 1967 just before he died in a
plane crash.
Pink Floyd  released its debut record, The Piper at the Gates
of Dawn .
Bob Dylan  released the country rock  album John W esley
Harding  in December 1967.
The Bee Gees  released their international debut album, Bee
Gees 1st , in July 1967; it included the pop standard " To Love
Somebody ".
The Monterey International Pop Festival  in 1967 was the
beginning of the " Summer of Love ".
The Beatles  released Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band
in 1967. It was nicknamed "The Soundtrack of the Summer of Love".
Johnny Cash  released At Folsom Prison  in 1968.
After The Yardbirds  folded, Led Zeppelin  was formed by Jimmy Page  and manager Peter
Grant  in 1968 with Robert Plant , John Bonham , John Paul Jones , and Page as members;
they released their debut album, Led Zeppelin , the next year .
Big Brother and the Holding Company , with Janis Joplin  as lead singer , became an
overnight sensation after their performance at the Monterey International Pop Festival  in
1967 and released their second album Cheap Thrills  in 1968.
Gram Parsons  with The Byrds  released the influential LP  Sweetheart of the Rodeo  in late
1968, forming the basis for country rock .
The Jimi Hendrix Experience  released the influential double LP  Electric Ladyland  in 1968
that furthered the guitar and studio innovations of his previous two albums.
Simon and Garfunkel  released the single " Mrs. Robinson " in 1968, featured in the film The
Graduate .
Country music newcomer Jeannie C. Riley  released the country and pop hit " Harper V alley
PTA" in 1968, which is about a miniskirt -wearing mother of a teenage girl who was criticized
by the local PTA for supposedly setting a bad example for her daughter but turns the tables
by exposing some of the PT A members' wrongdoings. The song, along with Riley's mod
persona in connection with it, apparently gave country music a "sexual revolution" of its own
as hemlines of other female country artists' stage dresses began rising in the years that
followed.
Sly & the Family Stone  revolutionized black music with their 1968 hit single " Dance to the
Music " and became international sensations by 1969 with the release of their hit record
Stand! . The band cemented their position as a vital counterculture band when they
performed at the Woodstock Festival .
The Gun  released "Race with the Devil" in October 1968.
After a long performance drought, Elvis Presley  made a successful return to TV and live
performances after spending most of the decade making movies, beginning with his '68
Comeback Special  in December 1968 on NBC , followed by a summer engagement in Las
Vegas  in 1969. Presley's return to live performing set the stage for his many concert tours
and continued V egas engagements throughout the 1970s until his death in 1977.Salah Zulfikar in The Cursed Palace
(1962)The Foundations  released " Build Me Up Buttercup " in December 1968.
The Rolling Stones filmed the TV special The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus  in
December 1968 but the film was not released for transmission. It was considered a fabled
"lost" performance for decades until it was released in North America on Laserdisc  and VHS
in 1996. The special features performances from The Who , The Dirty Mac  (featuring John
Lennon , Eric Clapton  and Mitch Mitchell ), Jethro Tull and Taj Mahal .
Spooky Tooth released their second album, Spooky T wo, in March 1969. The album was an
important hard rock milestone.
The Woodstock Festival  (and the Altamont Free Concert  four months later) in 1969.
The Who  released and toured the first rock opera, Tommy , in 1969.
Proto-punk band MC5  released the live album Kick Out the Jams  in 1969.
Captain Beefheart and his Magic Band  released the avant-garde  Trout Mask Replica  in
1969.
Creedence Clearwater Revival  released " Fortunate Son " in 1969. The song amassed
popularity with the anti-war movement  at the time and would later be used in films, TV
shows and video games depicting the Vietnam W ar or the U.S during the late 1960s and
early 1970s.
The Stooges  released their debut album in 1969.
The Beatles  released Abbey Road  in 1969.
King Crimson  released their debut album, In the Court of the Crimson King , in 1969.
Led Zeppelin  released two of their self-titled debut albums, Led Zeppelin I  and Led Zeppelin
II, in 1969.
The highest-grossing film of the decade was 20th Century Fox's
The Sound of Music  (1965).[54]
Some of Hollywood's most notable blockbuster films  of the 1960s
include:
2001: A Space Odyssey
The Apartment
The Birds
I Am Curious (Y ellow)
Bonnie and Clyde
Breakfast at T iffany's
Bullitt
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
Carnival of Souls
Cleopatra
Cool Hand Luke
The Dirty Dozen
Doctor Zhivago
Dr. Strangelove
Easy Rider
Exodus
FacesFilmFunny Girl
Goldfinger
The Graduate
Guess Who's Coming to Dinner
Head
How the W est W as Won
The Hustler
Ice Station Zebra
In the Heat of the Night
The Italian Job
It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World
Jason and the Argonauts
Judgment at Nuremberg
The Jungle Book
Lawrence of Arabia
The Lion in W inter
The Longest Day
The Love Bug
A Man for All Seasons
The Manchurian Candidate
Mary Poppins
Medium CoolMidnight Cowboy
My Fair Lady
Night of the Living Dead
The Pink Panther
The Odd Couple
Oliver!
One Hundred and One Dalmatians
One Million Years B.C.
Planet of the Apes
Psycho
Romeo and Juliet
Rosemary's Baby
The Sound of Music
Spartacus
Swiss Family Robinson
The Sword in the Stone
To Kill a Mockingbird
Valley of the Dolls
West Side Story
Who's Afraid of V irginia Woolf?
The W ild Bunch
The count erculture movement had a significant effect on cinema. Movies began to break social taboos
such as sex and violence  causing both controversy and fascinati on. They turned increasingly dramatic,
unbalanced, and hectic as the cultural revolution was starting. This was the beginning of the New
Hollywood  era that dominated the next decade in theatres and revolutionized the film industry . Films of
this time also focused on the changes  happening in the world. Dennis Hopper 's Easy Rider (1969)
focused on the drug culture  of the time. Movies also became more sexually explicit, such as Roger
Vadim 's Barbar ella (1968), as the counterculture  progressed.
In Europe, art cinema  gained wider distribution and saw movements like la Nouvelle Vague  (The  French
New Wave), which featured French filmmakers such as Roger Vadim , François Truffaut, Alain Resnais ,
and Jean-Luc Godard ; the cinéma vérité documen tary move ment took place in Canada, France and the
United States; Swedish filmmaker  Ingmar Bergman , Chilean filmmaker  Alexandro Jodorow sky and
Polish filmmakers  Roman Polanski  and Wojciech Jerzy Has produced original and offbeat masterpieces
and the high-point of Italian filmmaking  with Michelangelo Antonioni  and Federico Fellini  making some
of their most known  films during this period. Notable films from this period include: La Dolce Vita, 81⁄2;
La Notte ; L'Eclisse , The Red Desert ; Blowup ; Fellini Satyricon ; Accattone ; The Gospe l Accor ding to St.
Matthew ; Theor em; Winter Light ; The Silence ; Persona ; Shame ; A Passion ; Au hasard Balthazar ;
Mouchette ; Last Year at Marienbad ; Chronique d'un été; Titicut Follies; High Scho ol; Salesman ; La jetée;
Warrendale ; Knife in the Water; Repulsion ; The Sarag ossa Manuscript ; El Topo; A Hard Day's Night ; and
the cinéma vérité  Dont Look Back .
In Japan, Chūshingura: Hana no Maki, Yuki no Maki  a film version of the story of the forty-seven rōnin
directed by Hiroshi Inagaki , was released in 1962; the legendary story was also remade as a television
series in Japan. Academy Award-winni ng Japanese  director Akira Kurosawa  produced  Yojimbo  (1961)Yul Brynner, Steve McQueen, Horst
Buchholz, Charles Bronson, Robert
Vaughn, Brad Dexter, and James
Coburn in John Sturges's The
Magnificent Seven, 1960and Sanjur o (1962), which both starred Toshiro Mifune  as a
mysterious samurai  swordsman for hire. Like his previous films
both had a profound influence around the world. The Spaghetti
Western  genre was a direct outgrowth of the Kurosawa films. The
influence of these films is most apparent in Sergio Leone 's A
Fistful of Dollars  (1964) starring Clint Eastw ood and Walter Hill's
Last Man Standing  (1996). Yojimbo  was also the origin of the
"Man with No Name " trend which includ ed Sergio Leone's For a
Few Dolla rs More, and The Good , The Bad and The Ugly  both
also starring Clint Eastwood, and arguably continued through his
1968 opus Once Upon a Time in the West, starring Henry Fonda ,
Charles Bronson , Claudia Cardinale , and Jason Robards. The
Magnificent Seven  a 1960 American western film directed by John
Sturges was a remake  of Akira Kurosawa 's 1954 film, Seven
Samurai . Another popular figure in this genre was John Wayne , with films from the 60s such as The Man
Who Shot Liberty V alance  (1962), El Dorado  (1966), True Grit  (1969) and others.
The 1960s were also about experimentation. With the explosion of lightweigh t and affordable cameras,
the under ground avant-garde film movemen t thrived. The movement's notable figures include Canada's
Michael Snow  and Americans Kenneth Anger , Stan Brakhage , Andy Warhol , and Jack Smith . Notable
films in this genre include Dog Star Man, Scorpio Rising , Wavelength , Chelsea Girls , Blow Job, Vinyl,
and Flaming Cr eatur es.
Walt Disney , the founder of The Walt Disney Company , died on 15 December 1966 from a major tumor
in his left lung. Alongside One Hundr ed and One Dalmatians , The Swor d in the Stone  and The Jungle
Book  (some of his most important blockbusters), animated feature films of the decade that are of notable
status include Gay Purr-ee, Hey There, It's Yogi Bear! , The Man Called Flintstone , Mad Monster Party? ,
Yellow Submarine  and A Boy Named Charlie Br own.
Removal of the Motion Picture Association of America 's Production Code  in 1967.
The MP A's establishment of the film ratings system  in 1968.
The decline and end of the studio system .
The rise of arthouse  films and theaters.
The end of the classical Hollywood cinema  era.
The beginning of the New Hollywood  Era due to the counterculture.
The rise of independent producers that worked outside the studio system.
Move to all-color production in Hollywood films.
The invention of the Nagra  1/4", sync-sound, portable open-reel tape deck.
New film formats like IMAX  are invented and new ways of displaying film are tested at Expo
67.
Flat-bed film editing tables (like the Steenbeck ) appear; they eventually replace the Moviola
editing platform.
The French New W ave reaches its peak.
Direct cinema  and cinéma vérité  documentaries.Significant events in the film industry in the 1960sThe beginning of the Golden Age of Porn  in 1969, which continued throughout the 1970s
and into the first half of the 1980s.
The most prominen t TV series of the 1960s include Doctor Who, The Ed Sullivan Show , Coronation
Street, Star Trek, Peyton Place , The Twilight Zone , The Outer Limits , The Andy Williams Show , The Dean
Martin Show , The Wonderful World of Disney , Alfred Hitchcock Presents , The Beverly Hillbillies ,
Bonanza , Batman , McHale's Navy , Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In , The Dick Van Dyke Show , The
Fugitive , The Tonight Show , Gunsmoke , The Andy Griffith Show, Gilligan's Island , Mission: Impossible ,
The Flintstones , The Adventur es of Ozzie and Harriet , Lassie , The Danny Thomas Show , The Lucy Show ,
My Three Sons , The Red Skelton Show , Bewitched , and I Dream of Jeannie . The Flintstones  was a
popular show , receiving 40 million views an episode with an average of 3 million views a day. Doctor
Who is the longest-running science-fiction show of all time according to the Guinness World Recor ds.
Some programming (such as The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour ) became controversial by challenging
the founda tions of America's corporate  and governmental controls, making fun of world leaders and
questioning U.S. involvement in (as well as escalation of) the Vietnam War.
Significant fashion trends of the 1960s include:
The Beatles  exerted an enormous influence on young men's fashions and hairstyles in the
1960s which included most notably the mop-top haircut , the Beatle boots  and the Nehru
jacket .
The hippie  movement late in the decade also had a strong influence on clothing styles,
including bell-bottom jeans , tie-dye  and batik  fabrics, as well as paisley  prints.
The bikini  came into fashion in 1963 after being featured in the film Beach Party .
Mary Quant  popularised the miniskirt , which became one of the most popular fashion rages
in the late 1960s among young women and teenage girls. Its popularity continued
throughout the first half of the 1970s and then disappeared temporarily from mainstream
fashion before making a comeback in the mid-1980s.
Men's mainstream hairstyles ranged from the pompadour , the crew cut , the flattop  hairstyle,
the tapered hairstyle, and short, parted hair in the early part of the decade, to longer parted
hairstyles with sideburns  towards the latter half of the decade.
Women's mainstream hairstyles ranged from beehive hairdos , the bird's nest hairstyle, and
the chignon  hairstyle in the early part of the decade, to very short styles popularized by
Twiggy  and Mia Farrow  in Rosemary's Baby  towards the latter half of the decade.
African-American hairstyles for men and women included the afro.Television
FashionMembers of Argentine rock
band Los Gatos sporting mop-
top haircuts, which were
considered at the time a
rebellious hairstyle. 
The bikini became a fashionable
item in the Western world during
the decade
"Swinging London" fashions on
Carnaby Street, c. 1966 
Tie-dye shirts of all colors were
at their height and worn by
many during the 1960s.
Lava lamps (released in the late
1940s) became very prevalent
in the 1960s and were used as
decorations. 
Go-go boots were a popular
piece of fashion, worn by many.
The Outsiders  by S.E. Hinton was a massively popular novel during the decade. It illustrated
the dif ficult life for the working class at the time.[55]Literature
SportsThe first ever Super bowl had happened in 1967 in Los Angeles, California
There were six Olympic Games  held during the decade. These were:
1960 Summer Olympics  – 25 August – 11 September 1960, in Rome, Italy
1960 Winter Olympics  – 18–28 February 1960, in Squaw V alley, California, United States
1964 Summer Olympics  – 10–24 October 1964, in Tokyo, Japan
1964 Winter Olympics  – 29 January – 9 February 1964, in Innsbruck , Austria
1968 Summer Olympics  – 12–27 October 1968, in Mexico City , Mexico
1968 Winter Olympics  – 6–18 February 1968, in Grenoble , France
There were two FIFA World Cups  during the decade:
1962 FIF A World Cup  – hosted in Chile, won by Brazil
1966 FIF A World Cup  – hosted and won by England
The first wave of Major League Baseball  expansion in 1961 included the formation of the Los Angeles
Angels , the move to Minnesota to become the Minnesota Twins  by the former Washington Senators  and
the formation of a new franchise called the Washington Senators . Major League Base ball sanctioned both
the Houston Colt .45s  and the New York Mets  as new National League  franchises in 1962.
In 1969, the American League  expanded when the Kansas City Royals  and Seattle Pilots , were admitted
to the league prompting the expansion of the post-season (in the form of the League Championsh ip
Series ) for the first time since the creation of the World Series. The Pilots stayed just one season in Seattle
before moving and becoming the Milwaukee Brewers  in 1970. The Natio nal League also added two
teams in 1969, the Montreal Expos  and San Diego  Padres . By 1969, the New  York Mets won the World
Series  in only the 8th year of the team's existence.
The NBA  tournaments during the 1960s were dominated by the Boston Celtics, who won eight straight
titles from 1959 to 1966 and added two more consecutive championships in 1968 and 1969, aided by
such players as Bob Cousy , Bill Russell  and John Havlicek . Other notable NBA  players included Wilt
Chamberlain , Elgin Baylor , Jerry West and Oscar Robertson .
At the NCAA  level, the UCLA  Bruins  also proved dominant. Coached by John Wooden , they were helped
by Lew Alcindor  and by Bill Walton  to win championships and dominate the American college basketball
landscape during the decade.Olympics
Association football
Baseball
Basketball
Disc sports (Frisbee)Alternative sports, using the flying disc, began in the mid-sixties. As numbers of young people became
alienated from social norms, they resisted and looked for alternatives. They would form what would
become known as the counterculture . The forms of escape and resistance would manifest in many ways
including social activism, alternative lifestyles, experimental living through foods, dress, music and
alternative recreational activities, inclu ding that of throwing a Frisbee .[56] Starting with promotional
efforts from Wham-O  and Irwin Toy (Canada), a few tournaments and professionals using Frisbee  show
tours to perform at universities, fairs and sporting events, disc sports such as freestyle , double disc court ,
guts, disc ultimate  and disc golf became this sports first events.[57][58] Two sports, the team sport of disc
ultimate  and disc golf are very popular worldwide and are now being played semiprofessionally .[59][60]
The World Flying Disc Federation , Professional Disc Golf Association  and the Freestyle Players
Association are the official rules and sanctioning organizations for flying disc sports worldwide. Major
League Ultimate  (MLU) and the American Ultimate Disc League  (AUDL) are the first semi-professional
ultimate leagues.
In motorsports , the Can-Am  and Trans-Am  series were both established in 1966. The Ford GT40  won
outright in the 24 Hours of Le Mans . Graham Hill edged  out Jackie Stewar t and Denny Hulme for the
World Championship in Formula One.
Some activist leaders of the 1960s period include:
Joan Baez
James Baldwin
Harry Belafonte
James Bevel
Stokely Carmichael
Rennie Davis
David Dellinger
Bob Dylan
Medgar Evers
Michael Farrell
Lawrence Ferlinghetti
Allen Ginsberg
Dick Gregory
Abbie Hof fman
Jesse Jackson
Barbara JordanBernard Lafayette
Timothy Leary
John Lennon
John Lewis
Martin Luther King Jr .
James Meredith
Diane Nash
Phil Ochs
Yoko Ono
Rosa Parks
Jerry Rubin
Mario Savio
Fred Shuttlesworth
Gloria Steinem
Malcolm X
Andrew YoungRacing
People
ActivistsJoan Baez 
Dick Gregory 
John Lewis 
Jerry Rubin
Eddie Albert
Jack Albertson
Steve Allen
Woody Allen
Julie Andrews
James Arness
Fred Astaire
Richard Attenborough
Stéphane Audran
Charles Aznavour
Carroll Baker
Barbara Bain
Lucille Ball
Martin Balsam
Anne Bancroft
Brigitte Bardot
Richard Basehart
Alan Bates
Anne Baxter
Warren Beatty
Jean-Paul Belmondo
Jane Birkin
Robert Blake
Mel Blanc
Dirk Bogarde
Richard Boone
Shirley Booth
Ernest Borgnine
Tom Bosley
Stephen Boyd
Marlon Brando
Lloyd Bridges
Charles BronsonMel Brooks
Jim Brown
Lenny Bruce
Yul Brynner
Richard Burton
Raymond Burr
Sid Caesar
Michael Caine
Rory Calhoun
Claudia Cardinale
Yvonne De Carlo
Leslie Caron
John Carradine
Diahann Carroll
Johnny Carson
John Cassavetes
George Chakiris
Charlie Chaplin
Julie Christie
Lee V an Cleef
Montgomery Clift
Lee J. Cobb
James Coburn
Joan Collins
Sean Connery
Chuck Connors
Robert Conrad
Bill Cosby
Tom Courtenay
Bob Crane
Bing Crosby
Robert Culp
Tony CurtisActors and entertainersPeter Cushing
Sammy Davis Jr .
Doris Day
Ruby Dee
Sandra Dee
Alain Delon
Catherine Deneuve
Brandon deWilde
Angie Dickinson
Troy Donahue
Diana Dors
Kirk Douglas
James Drury
Patty Duke
Faye Dunaway
Robert Duvall
Dick V an Dyke
Clint Eastwood
Barbara Eden
Anita Ekberg
Peter Falk
Mia Farrow
Mel Ferrer
José Ferrer
Peter Finch
Albert Finney
Jo Van Fleet
Henry Fonda
Jane Fonda
Peter Fonda
June Foray
Glenn Ford
John Forsythe
Anthony Franciosa
Louis de Funès
Clark Gable
Eva Gabor
Zsa Zsa Gabor
James Garner
Judy Garland
Vittorio Gassman
Jackie Gleason
Cary Grant
Stewart Granger
Lorne GreeneAndy Grif fith
Alec Guinness
Fred Gwynne
Gene Hackman
Larry Hagman
Jonathan Harris
Richard Harris
William Hartnell
Tippi Hedren
Van Heflin
Audrey Hepburn
Katharine Hepburn
Charlton Heston
Dustin Hof fman
William Holden
James Hong
Dennis Hopper
Bob Hope
Rock Hudson
Jeffrey Hunter
Tab Hunter
John Ireland
Burl Ives
Glynis Johns
Carolyn Jones
Shirley Jones
Katy Jurado
Anna Karina
Danny Kaye
Brian Keith
George Kennedy
Gene Kelly
Grace Kelly
Jack Kelly
Eartha Kitt
Jack Klugman
Don Knotts
Martin Landau
Burt Lancaster
Angela Lansbury
Peter Lawford
Cloris Leachman
Bruce Lee
Christopher Lee
Janet LeighJack Lemmon
Jerry Lewis
Robert Loggia
Gina Lollobrigida
Sophia Loren
Peter Lorre
Darren McGavin
David McCallum
Fred MacMurray
Shirley MacLaine
Jayne Mansfield
Karl Malden
Dorothy Malone
Ann-Margret
Dean Martin
Steve Martin
Lee Marvin
James Mason
Marcello Mastroianni
David McCallum
Roddy McDowall
Steve McQueen
Burgess Meredith
Toshiro Mifune
Vera Miles
Sal Mineo
Robert Mitchum
Elizabeth Montgomery
Roger Moore
Marilyn Monroe
Jeanne Moreau
Rita Moreno
Harry Morgan
Robert Morse
Don Murray
Patricia Neal
Paul Newman
Julie Newmar
Barbara Nichols
Leslie Nielsen
Leonard Nimoy
David Niven
Kim Novak
Maureen O'Hara
Laurence OlivierPeter O'T oole
Geraldine Page
Janis Paige
Eleanor Parker
Jack Palance
Gregory Peck
George Peppard
Anthony Perkins
Michel Piccoli
Donald Pleasence
Suzanne Pleshette
Christopher Plummer
Sidney Poitier
Paula Prentiss
Elvis Presley
Vincent Price
Anthony Quayle
Anthony Quinn
Tony Randall
Lynn Redgrave
Michael Redgrave
Vanessa Redgrave
Oliver Reed
Robert Reed
Carl Reiner
Lee Remick
Don Rickles
Diana Rigg
Thelma Ritter
Robert Redford
Burt Reynolds
Debbie Reynolds
Jason Robards
Cliff Robertson
Edward G. Robinson
Cesar Romero
Mickey Rooney
Barbara Rush
Eva Marie Saint
George Sanders
Telly Savalas
John Saxon
Maximilian Schell
George C. Scott
George SegalJean Seberg
Peter Sellers
Omar Sharif
William Shatner
Jean Simmons
Frank Sinatra
Ann Sothern
Robert Stack
Terence Stamp
James Stewart
Barbra Streisand
Woody Strode
Barry Sullivan
Ed Sullivan
Donald Sutherland
Max von Sydow
Sharon Tate
Elizabeth Taylor
Rod Taylor
Jean-Louis TrintignantPatrick Troughton
Cicely Tyson
Raf V allone
Robert V aughn
Robert W agner
Eli W allach
Burt W ard
John W ayne
Raquel W elch
Adam W est
Betty White
Stuart Whitman
Richard Widmark
Gene Wilder
Jonathan Winters
Shelley Winters
Natalie W ood
Joanne W oodward
Keenan W ynn
Efrem Zimbalist Jr .
Brigitte Bardot, 1962 
Audrey Hepburn, 1963 
Clint Eastwood, 1964
Sean Connery, 1964 
Paul Newman, 1966
Alfred Hitchcock Stanley KubrickFilmmakersIngmar Bergman
Federico Fellini
Orson W elles
Roman Polanski
Akira Kurosawa
Ishiro Honda
Jean-Luc Godard
Pier Paolo Pasolini
François Truffaut
Sergio Leone
David Lean
Sidney Lumet
John Ford
Dennis Hopper
John Huston
John Sturges
Sam Peckinpah
Billy Wilder
Blake Edwards
Arthur Penn
Michelangelo Antonioni
Alain Resnais
Claude Chabrol
George A. Romero
Eric Rohmer
Don Siegel
Jean Rouch
Robert Mulligan
Andreï Tarkovsky
Luchino V isconti
Jerry LewisLuis Buñuel
Joseph Losey
Richard Fleisher
Joseph L. Mankiewicz
John Huston
Luigi Comencini
Elia Kazan
Stuart Rosenberg
Woody Allen
Mike Nichols
Robert Wise
Norman Jewison
Mario Bava
Lucio Fulci
Robert Aldrich
Stanley Kramer
Howard Hawks
Jacques Tati
Lewis Milestone
Mikhaïl Kalatozov
Stanley Donen
George Cukor
John Frankenheimer
Sydney Pollack
Ken Loach
Michael Powell
Anthony Mann
Jack Clayton
Vittorio De Sica
Gene Roddenberry
Steven SpielbergAlfred Hitchcock 
Ingmar Bergman 
Federico Fellini
Stanley Kubrick 
Jean Luc Godard
Paul Anka
Richard Anthony
Louis Armstrong
Eddy Arnold
Chet Atkins
Burt Bacharach
Joan Baez
Pearl Bailey
Bee Gees
Tony Bennett
Chuck Berry
Art Blakey
Bobby Bland
Pat Boone
David Bowie
James Brown
Solomon Burke
Jerry Butler
Glen Campbell
Johnny CashRay Charles
Chubby Checker
Lou Christie
Eric Clapton
Dee Clark
Petula Clark
Patsy Cline
Rosemary Clooney
Joe Cocker
Nat "King" Cole
Sam Cooke
Leonard Cohen
John Coltrane
King Crimson
Bing Crosby
Bobby Darin
Miles Davis
Sammy Davis Jr .
Delia Derbyshire
Neil DiamondMusicians and singersBo Diddley
Dion DiMucci
Fats Domino
Bob Dylan
Duke Ellington
Art Farmer
Eddie Fisher
Ella Fitzgerald
Tennessee Ernie Ford
Aretha Franklin
Marvin Gaye
Robin Gibb
Dizzy Gillespie
Lesley Gore
Eydie Gormé
Buddy Guy
Merle Haggard
Johnny Hallyday
Jimi Hendrix
Eddie Hodges
Lena Horne
Burl Ives
Etta James
Sonny James
Waylon Jennings
George Jones
Quincy Jones
Tom Jones
Janis Joplin
B.B. King
Ben E. King
Freddie King
Eartha Kitt
Frankie Laine
Brenda Lee
Peggy Lee
Jerry Lee Lewis
Loretta L ynn
Scott McKenzie
Manfred Mann
Bob Marley
Dean Martin
Johnny Mathis
Curtis Mayfield
Barry McGuireRoger Miller
Charles Mingus
Guy Mitchell
Joni Mitchell
Thelonious Monk
Bill Monroe
Wes Montgomery
Jim Morrison
Ricky Nelson
Sandy Nelson
Willie Nelson
Phil Ochs
Roy Orbison
Buck Owens
Dolly Parton
Elvis Presley
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Lou Rawls
Jerry Reed
Jimmy Reed
Lou Reed
Della Reese
Otis Redding
Cliff Richard
Little Richard
Jeannie C. Riley
Tex Ritter
Max Roach
Marty Robbins
Jimmy Rodgers
Sonny Rollins
Demis Roussos
Kyu Sakamoto
Neil Sedaka
Pete Seeger
Nina Simone
Frank Sinatra
Hank Snow
Dusty Springfield
Rod Stewart
Joan Sutherland
Hank Thompson
Conway Twitty
Ernest TubbBig Joe Turner
Ike & Tina Turner
Sarah V aughan
Bobby V ee
Gene V incent
Porter W agoner
Dionne W arwick
Dinah W ashington
Muddy W aters
Kitty W ellsDottie W est
Howlin' W olf
Andy Williams
Jackie Wilson
Nancy Wilson
Stevie W onder
Faron Young
Neil Young
Frank Zappa
Willie Nelson, 1965 
Aretha Franklin, 1968 
Johnny Cash, 1969
Janis Joplin, 1969
The Animals
The Beach Boys
The Beatles
Bee Gees
Blood, Sweat and Tears
The Cascades
Cream
Creedence Clearwater Revival
The Doors
The Four TopsGladys Knight & the Pips
Grateful Dead
Herb Alpert & the Tijuana Brass
The Hollies
The Impressions
Iron Butterfly
The Jackson 5
Jefferson Airplane
The Jimi Hendrix Experience
The KinksBandsLed Zeppelin
The Mamas & the Papas
The Marvelettes
The Miracles
The Monkees
Moody Blues
The Ohio Express
Pink Floyd
Procol Harum
The Righteous Brothers
The Rolling StonesThe Ronettes
Santana
The Shadows
Simon and Garfunkel
The Stooges
The Supremes
The Temptations
The V elvet Underground
The Who
The Yardbirds
The Zombies
The Beatles, 1964 
Beach Boys, 1964 
The Doors, 1968
Cream, 1968 
The Temptations, 1969
Kurt V onnegut
Isaac Asimov
Ray Bradbury
Dr. Seuss
Gabriel García Márquez
Arthur Miller
Sylvia Plath
Philip K. Dick
Carlos CastanedaTruman Capote
John Steinbeck
Arthur C. Clarke
Harper Lee
Jack Kerouac
Robert Heinlein
Ken Kesey
Joseph Heller
Henry MillerWritersMuhammad Ali, 1966Hunter S. Thompson
Edward Albee
Gore V idal
William S. Burroughs
Frank Herbert
Charles M. Schultz
Anthony Burgess
Thomas Pinchon
Tom Stoppard
Seamus HeaneyJoseph Campbell
Edward Abbey
Norman Podhoretz
Amiri Baraka
James Graham Ballard
Noël Coward
Philip Larkin
Agatha Christie
James Baldwin
Lorraine Hansberry
Isaac Asimov 
James Baldwin 
Arthur C. Clarke 
Philip K. Dick
Hank Aaron
Muhammad Ali
Ernie Banks
Gordon Banks
Elgin Baylor
Yogi Berra
George Best
Abebe Bikila
Jack Brabham
Lou Brock
Jim Brown
Giacomo Bulgarelli
Matt Busby
Dick Butkus
John Carlos
Věra Čáslavská
Wilt Chamberlain
Bobby Charlton
Jack Charlton
Jim Clark
Roberto Clemente
Otis Davis
Alfredo Di StefanoSports figuresYukio Endō
Lee Evans
Eusebio
Dick Fosbury
Garrincha
Bob Gibson
Charles Greene
Dan Gurney
John Havlicek
Mike Hailwood
Bob Hayes
Phil Hill
Jim Hines
Geof f Hurst
Giacinto Facchetti
Peggy Fleming
Paul Hornung
Vince Lombardi
Rafer Johnson
Sam Jones
K. C. Jones
Kipchoge Keino
Mickey Mantle
Vincent Matthews
Willie Mays
Willie McCovey
Bruce McLaren
Bobby Moore
Pedro Morales
Joe NamathJack Nicklaus
Ray Nitschke
Chuck Norris
Al Oerter
Arnold Palmer
Pelé
Richard Petty
Brian Piccolo
Ferenc Puskás
Alf Ramsey
Jochen Rindt
Oscar Robertson
Frank Robinson
Bobby Robson
Bill Russell
Satch Sanders
Gale Sayers
Arnold Schwarzenegger
Bill Shankly
Ronnie Ray Smith
Tommie Smith
Bart Starr
John Surtees
Giovanni Trapattoni
Johnny Unitas
Jerry W est
Fred Williamson
Mamo W olde
Lev Yashin
1960s portal
List of decades
1960s decor
Silent Generation  (the younger members of that demographic had matured in the early part
of the decade).
Baby Boomers  (the decade when the older members of the Boomer generation had become
of age).
List of underground newspapers of the 1960s counterculture
The Sixties Unplugged  (book)See also
TimelinesThe following articles contain brief timelines which list the most prominent events of the decade:
1960  • 1961  • 1962  • 1963  • 1964  • 1965  • 1966  • 1967  • 1968  • 1969  • Timeline of 1960s counterculture
1. Joshua Zeitz  (http://www .americanheritage.com/articles/magazine/ah/2006/5/2006_5_32.sht
ml) Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20100106144139/http://www .americanheritage.co
m/articles/magazine/ah/2006/5/2006_5_32.shtml)  6 January 2010 at the Wayback Machine
"1964: The Year the Sixties Began", American Heritage , Oct. 2006.
2. John Barth  (1984) intro to The Literature of Exhaustion , in The Friday Book .
3. Maslin, Janet  (5 November 2007). "Brokaw Explores Another Turning Point, the '60s"  (http
s://www .nytimes.com/2007/11/05/books/05masl.html) . The New York T imes . Archived  (http
s://web.archive.org/web/20190720205838/https://www .nytimes.com/2007/11/05/books/05m
asl.html)  from the original on 20 July 2019 . Retrieved 26 August  2011 .
4. "The Economy: W e Are All Keynesians Now"  (https://web.archive.org/web/2007092100450
4/http://www .time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,842353-7,00.html) . Time. 31 December
1965. Archived from the original  (http://www .time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,842353-
7,00.html)  on 21 September 2007 . Retrieved 1 January  2011 . "Keynesianism made its
biggest breakthrough under John Kennedy , who, as Arthur Schlesinger reports in A
Thousand Days, "was unquestionably the first Keynesian President." "
5. Staricco, Juan Ignacio (2012) https://www .scribd.com/doc/112409042/The-French-May-and-
the-Roots-of-Postmodern-Politics  Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20160306160322/ht
tps://www .scribd.com/doc/112409042/The-French-May-and-the-Roots-of-Postmodern-Politic
s) 6 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine
6. Arthur Marwick, The Sixties: Cultural Revolution in Britain, France, Italy , and the United
States, c.1958-c.1974  (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998, ISBN  978-0-19-210022-1 ),
247–248.
7. Erlanger , Steven (29 April 2008). "May 1968 – a watershed in French life"  (https://www .nytim
es.com/2008/04/29/world/europe/29iht-france.4.12440504.html) . The New York T imes .
Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20110416072914/http://www .nytimes.com/2008/04/2
9/world/europe/29iht-france.4.12440504.html)  from the original on 16 April 2011 . Retrieved
31 August  2012 .
8. "Brief Overview of V ietnam W ar" (https://web.archive.org/web/20160803124531/http://www .
swarthmore.edu/library/peace/conscientiousobjection/OverviewV ietnamW ar.htm) .
Swarthmore College Peace Collection. Archived from the original  (http://www .swarthmore.ed
u/library/peace/conscientiousobjection/OverviewV ietnamW ar.htm)  on 3 August 2016 .
Retrieved 8 February  2014 .
9. "Gulf of Tonkin Measure V oted in Haste and Confusion in 1964"  (https://www .nytimes.com/1
970/06/25/archives/gulf-of-tonkin-measure-voted-in-haste-and-confusion-in-1964.html) . The
New York T imes . 25 June 1970. Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20180723212757/htt
ps://www .nytimes.com/1970/06/25/archives/gulf-of-tonkin-measure-voted-in-haste-and-conf
usion-in-1964.html)  from the original on 23 July 2018 . Retrieved 23 July  2018 .
10. Krauthammer , Charles (18 May 2007). "Prelude to the Six Days"  (https://www .washingtonpo
st.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/05/17/AR2007051701976.html) . The W ashington Post .
Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20190724024352/http://www .washingtonpost.com/wp
-dyn/content/article/2007/05/17/AR2007051701976.html)  from the original on 24 July 2019 .
Retrieved 20 April 2010 .Refer ences11. Kapur , Nick (2018). Japan at the Crossroads: Conflict and Compromise after Anpo  (https://b
ooks.google.com/books?id=Re5hDwAAQBAJ) . Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard
University Press . p. 1. ISBN  9780674988484 . Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/202012
16035041/https://books.google.com/books?id=Re5hDwAAQBAJ)  from the original on 16
December 2020 . Retrieved 26 July  2021 .
12. Kapur , Nick (2018). Japan at the Crossroads: Conflict and Compromise after Anpo  (https://b
ooks.google.com/books?id=Re5hDwAAQBAJ) . Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard
University Press . pp. 4–6. ISBN  9780674988484 . Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/202
01216035041/https://books.google.com/books?id=Re5hDwAAQBAJ)  from the original on 16
December 2020 . Retrieved 26 July  2021 .
13. Heerten, Lasse; Moses, A. Dirk (3 July 2014). "The Nigeria–Biafra war: postcolonial conflict
and the question of genocide"  (https://doi.org/10.1080/14623528.2014.936700) . Journal of
Genocide Research . 16 (2–3): 169–203. doi:10.1080/14623528.2014.936700  (https://doi.or
g/10.1080%2F14623528.2014.936700) . ISSN  1462-3528  (https://search.worldcat.org/issn/1
462-3528) . S2CID  143878825  (https://api.semanticscholar .org/CorpusID:143878825)  – via
Taylor and Francis+NEJM.
14. "Proxy W ars During the Cold W ar: Africa"  (https://www .atomicheritage.org/history/proxy-war
s-during-cold-war-africa) . Atomic Heritage Foundation .
15. "Milestones: 1961–1968 – Of fice of the Historian"  (https://history .state.gov/milestones/1961-
1968/congo-decolonization) . history .state.gov .
16. Oliver August (2 March 2013). "Africa rising A hopeful continent"  (https://www .economist.co
m/news/special-report/21572377-african-lives-have-already-greatly-improved-over-past-dec
ade-says-oliver-august) . The Economist . The Economist Newspaper Limited . Retrieved
15 December  2013 .
17. Ocran, Matthew Kofi (2019), Ocran, Matthew Kofi (ed.), "Post-Independence African
Economies: 1960–2015"  (https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-10770-3_9) , Economic
Development in the T wenty-first Century: Lessons for Africa Throughout History , Palgrave
Studies in Economic History , Cham: Springer International Publishing, pp. 301–372,
doi:10.1007/978-3-030-10770-3_9  (https://doi.org/10.1007%2F978-3-030-10770-3_9) ,
ISBN  978-3-030-10770-3 , S2CID  159395862  (https://api.semanticscholar .org/CorpusID:159
395862) , retrieved 7 July  2021
18. Jaime Pensado, "The (forgotten) Sixties in Mexico." The Sixties: A Journal of History ,
Politics and Culture  (2008) 1#1: 83–90.
19. Curtis Cate, The Ides of August: The Berlin W all Crisis–1961  (1978).
20. Giuseppe Alberigo, and Matthew Sherry , A Brief History of V atican II  (2006)
21. William Taubman, Khrushchev: The Man and His Era  (2003),
22. Günter , et al. eds. Bischof, The Prague Spring and the W arsaw Pact Invasion of
Czechoslovakia in 1968  (Lexington Books, 2010)
23. Krishna Dutta (2008). Calcutta: A Cultural History  (https://books.google.com/books?id=59wfj
yIIJAkC&pg=P A220) . Interlink Books. p. 220. ISBN  978-1-56656-721-3 . Archived  (https://we
b.archive.org/web/20140627142825/http://books.google.com/books?id=59wfjyIIJAkC&pg=P
A220)  from the original on 27 June 2014 . Retrieved 10 October  2016 .
24. Akbarzadeh, Shahram; Saeed, Abdullah (2 September 2003). Islam and Political Legitimacy
(https://books.google.com/books?id=8a8wefN4bd8C&q=political+islam+sukarno&pg=P A16
0). Routledge. ISBN  978-1-134-38056-5 .
25. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, All Employees, Total Nonfarm [P AYEMS], retrieved from
FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/P AYEMS ,
January 3, 2024.
26. Holland, Susan S. “Long-T erm Unemployment in the 1960’ s.” Monthly Labor Review , vol. 88,
no. 9, 1965, pp. 1069–76. JST OR, http://www .jstor .org/stable/41836225 . Accessed 4 Jan.
2024.27. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Unemployment Rate [UNRA TE], retrieved from FRED,
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNRA TE, January 3,
2024
28. U.S. Of fice of Management and Budget and Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Federal
Surplus or Deficit [-] as Percent of Gross Domestic Product [FYFSGDA188S], retrieved from
FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/FYFSGDA188S ,
January 3, 2024.
29. "Inflation and CPI Consumer Price Index 1960–1969"  (https://inflationdata.com/articles/inflati
on-cpi-consumer-price-index-1960-1969/) . InflationData.com . Archived  (https://web.archive.
org/web/20201009192240/https://inflationdata.com/articles/inflation-cpi-consumer-price-inde
x-1960-1969/)  from the original on 9 October 2020 . Retrieved 9 October  2020 .
30. "U.S. History – 1960s"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20070606123915/http://elcoushistory .tri
pod.com/economics1960.html) . Archived from the original  (http://elcoushistory .tripod.com/ec
onomics1960.html)  on 6 June 2007.
31. Chun, Jayson Makoto (2006). A Nation of a Hundred Million Idiots?: A Social History of
Japanese T elevision, 1953–1973  (https://books.google.com/books?id=9miRAgAAQBAJ&pg
=PA184) . Routledge. pp. 184–185. ISBN  978-0-415-97660-2 . Retrieved 22 March  2014 .
32. Langdon, Frank (1973). Japan's Foreign Policy  (https://books.google.com/books?id=9qqdR
Rfwj-EC&pg=P A19) . Vancouver: University of British Columbia Press . p. 19.
ISBN  0774800151 . Retrieved 18 August  2012 .
33. "Katanga's Communique on the Killing of Lumumba". The New York T imes . 14 February
1961. ProQuest  115317883  (https://search.proquest.com/docview/115317883) .
34. "Rafael Trujillo killer file"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20111115223630/http://www .moreorle
ss.au.com/killers/trujillo.html) . Archived from the original  (http://www .moreorless.au.com/kille
rs/trujillo.html)  on 15 November 2011.
35. "Togo's President Slain in Coup: Insurgents Seize Most Of Cabinet". The W ashington Post .
14 January 1963. p. A11.
36. "The Diem coup | Miller Center"  (https://millercenter .org/the-presidency/educational-resourc
es/diem-coup) . 18 September 2017.
37. "Chapter 1"  (https://www .archives.gov/research/jfk/warren-commission-report/chapter-1#con
clusions) . 15 August 2016.
38. Kihss, Peter (22 February 1965). "Malcolm X Shot to Death at Rally"  (https://www .nytimes.c
om/1965/02/22/archives/malcolm-x-shot-to-death-at-rally-here-three-other-negroes-wounde
d.html) . The New York T imes .
39. "Death to the Architect"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20070424173033/http://www .time.com/
time/magazine/article/0,9171,836363-1,00.html) . Archived from the original  (http://www .time.
com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,836363-1,00.html)  on 24 April 2007.
40. "CIA man recounts Che Guevara's death"  (http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/7027619.stm) . BBC. 8
October 2007. Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20170628161656/http://news.bbc.co.u
k/2/hi/7027619.stm)  from the original on 28 June 2017 . Retrieved 24 June  2016 .
41. "Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr"  (https://kinginstitute.stanford.edu/encyclopedia/ass
assination-martin-luther-king-jr) . 24 April 2017.
42. Sirhan Reverse Decision  (https://www .gov.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/1.13.22-Sirh
an-Reverse-Decision.pdf)
43. "Civil Rights Act of 1964 – CRA  – Title VII – Equal Employment Opportunities – 42 US Code
Chapter 21"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20101021141154/http://finduslaw .com/civil_rights_
act_of_1964_cra_title_vii_equal_employment_opportunities_42_us_code_chapter_21) .
Archived from the original  (http://finduslaw .com/civil_rights_act_of_1964_cra_title_vii_equal
_employment_opportunities_42_us_code_chapter_21)  on 21 October 2010 . Retrieved
22 December  2012 .44. "LULAC History – All for One and One for All" (https://lulac.org/about/history/) . League of
United Latin American Citizens . Retrieved 22 March  2023 .
45. "americangiforum.org"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20150706223234/http://www .americangi
forum.org/about.cfm) . Archived from the original  (http://www .americangiforum.org/about.cfm)
on 6 July 2015.
46. "LatinoLA  – Hollywood :: Mendez v . Westminster"  (https://web.archive.org/web/2008041620
2512/http://www .latinola.com/story .php?story=432) . LatinoLA . Archived from the original  (htt
p://www .latinola.com/story .php?story=432)  on 16 April 2008 . Retrieved 17 March  2008 .
47. "Hernandez v . Texas – The Oyez Project at IIT  Chicago-Kent College of Law"  (https://www .o
yez.org/cases/1950%E2%80%931959/1953/1953_406/) . oyez.org . Archived  (https://web.arc
hive.org/web/20160307034040/https://www .oyez.org/cases/1950%E2%80%931959/1953/1
953_406/)  from the original on 7 March 2016 . Retrieved 27 June  2017 .
48. "MALDEF – About Us"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20080422002948/http://www .maldef.or
g/about/index.htm) . Archived from the original  (http://www .maldef.org/about/index.htm)  on
22 April 2008.
49. "U.S. Census Bureau Data"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20150924134627/http://www .cens
us.gov/statab/hist/HS-23.pdf)  (PDF) . Archived from the original  (https://www .census.gov/stat
ab/hist/HS-23.pdf)  (PDF)  on 24 September 2015.
50. Peter B.R. Hazell (2009). The Asian Green Revolution  (https://books.google.com/books?id=f
rNfVx-KZOcC&pg=P A1). Intl Food Policy Res Inst. Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20
201028040330/https://books.google.com/books?id=frNfVx-KZOcC&pg=P A1) from the
original on 28 October 2020 . Retrieved 18 February  2022 . {{cite book}}: |work=
ignored ( help)
51. Carlos Santana: I'm Immortal  (http://puntodigital.com/carlos-santana-im-immortal/224228/)
Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20101223045640/http://puntodigital.com/carlos-santa
na-im-immortal/224228/)  23 December 2010 at the Wayback Machine  interview by Punto
Digital , 13 October 2010
52. Jorgensen, Ernst (1998). Elvis Presley: A life in music. The complete recording sessions ,
p.120. St. Martin's Press. ISBN  0-312-18572-3
53. Sullivan, Denise. "You Really Got Me"  (https://www .allmusic.com/song/t630847) . AllMusic .
Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20220913055439/https://www .allmusic.com/song/you
-really-got-me-mt0033940816)  from the original on 13 September 2022 . Retrieved
25 November  2009 .
54. [1] (https://boxof ficemojo.com/alltime/adjusted.htm)  Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20
010710051059/https://boxof ficemojo.com/alltime/adjusted.htm)  10 July 2001 at the
Wayback Machine . Box Of fice Mojo .
55. August, Jude (2 May 2022). "How "The Outsiders" Became the Origin of YA Literature"  (http
s://medium.com/@judeaugust/how-the-outsiders-became-the-origin-of-ya-literature-d8636a
971ea6) . Medium . Retrieved 27 December  2023 .
56. Jordan Holtzman-Conston (2010). Countercultural Sports in America: The History and
Meaning of Ultimate Frisbee  (https://books.google.com/books?id=qycPRAAACAAJ) .
Waltham, Mass. ISBN  978-3838311951 . Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/2020072412
0036/https://books.google.com/books?id=qycPRAAACAAJ)  from the original on 24 July
2020 . Retrieved 28 December  2017 .
57. "World Flying Disc Federation"  (http://wfdf.org/) . WFDF  Official W ebsite . Archived  (https://we
b.archive.org/web/20131018043512/http://wfdf.org/)  from the original on 18 October 2013 .
Retrieved 19 October  2013 .
58. "World Flying Disc Federation"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20131019095944/http://wfdf.or
g/history-stats/history-of-fyling-disc) . History of the Flying Disc . Archived from the original  (ht
tp://wfdf.org/history-stats/history-of-fyling-disc)  on 19 October 2013 . Retrieved 20 October
2013 .59. "Professional Disc Golf Association"  (http://www .pdga.com/) . PDGA  Official W ebsite .
Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20210509023305/https://www .pdga.com/)  from the
original on 9 May 2021 . Retrieved 19 October  2013 .
60. "American Ultimate Disc League"  (http://theaudl.com/) . AUDL  Official W ebsite . Archived  (htt
ps://web.archive.org/web/20151021064303/http://theaudl.com/)  from the original on 21
October 2015 . Retrieved 20 October  2013 .
Anastakis, Dimitry , ed. The Sixties: passion, politics, and style  (McGill-Queen's Press-
MQUP , 2008.) Canadian emphasis
Baugess, James S., and Abbe Debolt, eds. Encyclopedia of the Sixties: A Decade of Culture
and Counterculture  (2 vol, 2012; also E-book) 871pp; 500 entries by scholars excerpt and
text search  (https://www .amazon.com/Encyclopedia-Sixties-Decade-Culture-Counterculture/
dp/0313329443/) ; online review  (https://journals.ala.org/rusq/article/view/3869/4293)
Berton, Pierre. 1967: the Last Good Year (Toronto: Doubleday Canada, 1997). Canadian
events
Brooks, V ictor. Last Season of Innocence: The T een Experience in the 1960s  (Rowman &
Littlefield, 2012) 207 pp.
Brown, Timothy Scott. West Germany and the Global Sixties  (2013)
Christiansen, Samantha and Zachary Scarlett, ed. The Third World and the Global 1960s
(New York: Berghahn, 2013) Introduction  (https://www .berghahnbooks.com/downloads/intro
s/ChristiansenThird_intro.pdf)
Farber , David, and Beth Bailey , eds. The Columbia guide to America in the 1960s  (Columbia
University Press, 2003).
Farber , David, ed. The Sixties: From Memory to History  (1994), Scholarly essays on the
United States
Flamm, Michael W . and David Steigerwald. Debating the 1960s: Liberal, Conservative, and
Radical Perspectives  (2007) on USA
Isserman, Maurice, and Michael Kazin. America divided: The civil war of the 1960s  (6th ed.
Oxford UP , 2020).
Marwick, Arthur . The Sixties: Cultural Revolution in Britain, France, Italy , and the United
States, c.1958-c.1974  (Oxford University Press, 1998, ISBN  978-0-19-210022-1 )
Matusow , Allen, The Unraveling of America: A History of Liberalism in the 1960s  (1984)
excerpt  (https://www .amazon.com/Unraveling-America-History-Liberalism-1960s/dp/082033
4057/)
Padva, Gilad. Animated Nostalgia and Invented Authenticity in Arte's Summer of the Sixties .
In Padva, Gilad, Queer Nostalgia in Cinema and Pop Culture , pp. 13–34 (Palgrave
Macmillan, 2014, ISBN  978-1-137-26633-0 ).
Palmer , Bryan D. Canada's 1960s: The Ironies of Identity in a Rebellious Era . Toronto:
University of Toronto Press, 2009.
Sandbrook, Dominic. Never Had It So Good: A History of Britain from Suez to the Beatles
(2006) 928pp; excerpt and text search  (https://www .amazon.com/Never-Had-It-So-Good/dp/
0349115303/)
Sandbrook, Dominic. White Heat: A History of Britain in the Swinging Sixties  (2 vol 2007)
Strain, Christopher B. The Long Sixties: America, 1955–1973  (Wiley , 2017). xii, 204 pp.Further  readingUnger , Debi, and Irwin Unger , eds. The T imes W ere a Changin': The Sixties Reader  (1998)
excerpt and text search  (https://www .amazon.com/T imes-W ere-Changin-Sixties-Reader/dp/
0609803379/)
DeKoven, Marianne. The Sixties and the Emergence of the Postmodern  (Duke University
Press, 2004)
Farber , David R. The Sixties: From Memory to History  (1994) excerpt and text search  (http
s://www .amazon.com/Sixties-Memory-History-David-Farber/dp/0807844624/)
Heale, Michael J. (March 2005). "The Sixties as History: A Review of the Political
Historiography". Reviews in American History . 33 (1): 133–152. doi:10.1353/rah.2005.0009
(https://doi.org/10.1353%2Frah.2005.0009) . JSTOR 30031497  (https://www .jstor .org/stable/
30031497) . S2CID  145537005  (https://api.semanticscholar .org/CorpusID:145537005) .
Hunt, Andrew . "When Did the Sixties Happen? Searching for New Directions", Journal of
Social History  (1999) 33#1 pp 147–161.
Meyer , James. The Art of Return: The Sixties and Contemporary Culture  (University of
Chicago Press, 2019). ISBN  9780226521558
Pensado, Jaime. "The (forgotten) Sixties in Mexico." The Sixties: A Journal of History ,
Politics and Culture (2008) 1#1: 83–90.
Rising, George Goodwin. "Stuck in the sixties: Conservatives and the legacies of the
1960s." (PhD U. of Arizona, 2003). hdl:10150/280496  (https://hdl.handle.net/10150%2F2804
96)
Ira Chernus, "When Did "the '60s" Begin? A Cautionary Tale for Historians" 4 Feb 2014,
History News Network  (http://hnn.us/blog/153290)
"1964" (PBS documentary , 2013)  (https://www .pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/films/196
4/)
Zurawik, David (20 January 1991). "On PBS, Six Hours of The '60s"  (https://www .baltimores
un.com/1991/01/20/on-pbs-six-hours-of-the-60s/) . The Baltimore Sun T imes . Archived  (http
s://web.archive.org/web/20160304101705/http://articles.baltimoresun.com/1991-01-20/featu
res/1991020182_1_boomers-sixties-obsession)  from the original on 4 March 2016 .
Retrieved 22 September  2015 .
The 1960s: A Bibliography  (http://www .public.iastate.edu/~rjackson/webbibl.html)  Archived
(https://web.archive.org/web/20180315063443/http://www .public.iastate.edu/~rjackson/webb
ibl.html)  15 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
CBC Digital Archives – 1960s a GoGo  (http://archives.cbc.ca/IDD-1-69-1587/life_society/60
s/)
The Sixties Project  (http://www3.iath.virginia.edu/sixties/)
Heroes of the 1960s  (https://web.archive.org/web/20110303082238/http://www .life.com/ima
ge/first/in-gallery/56281/heroes-of-the-1960s#index/0)  – slideshow by Life magazine
The 60s: Literary Tradition and Social Change  (http://www .lib.virginia.edu/small/exhibits/sixti
es/), exhibit at the University of V irginia , Library , Special Collections.
1960s protest movements in America  (http://www .klarbooks.com/academic/protest.html)
The 1960s in Europe (Online Teaching and Research Guide)  (https://web.archive.org/web/2
0080724092323/http://www .1968ineurope.com/)Historiography
External links"1960s Fashion Feature, including biographies, interviews, clothing and resources"  (https://
web.archive.org/web/20080509050501/http://www .vam.ac.uk/collections/fashion/features/19
60s/index.html) . Victoria and Albert Museum . Archived from the original  (http://www .vam.ac.
uk/collections/fashion/features/1960s/index.html)  on 9 May 2008.
The 1960s  (http://www .history .com/topics/1960s)  – articles, video, pictures, and facts
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=1960s&oldid=1261951280"
