Newlywed Carl  goes to war where he endures major suffering.
Back home, wife Pauli  starves, becomes a prostitute to survive, and their baby dies.The films opens in present.
75-year-old Mary Carlton is depressed over her husband John's illness.
She feels her life has no use if he dies.
She starts reading her diary, after which the film jumps to 1865 in the time she fell in love with John.
She feels she has to hide her love for her strict mother, fearing she will disapprove because of their social class differences.
Mary lives within the very wealthy Marlowe family and grows up to be a lady with manners, while John is a working class employee.
When her parents find out about the affair, they are outrageous.
They forbid her from ever seeing John again.
However, Mary tells them she only loves John and will never marry anybody if she can't see him anymore.
Her father William locks her into her own room until she stops being a rebel.
Meanwhile, she receives a letter from John, who announces he has been fired over their love affair.
Later that night, John sneaks into her room by the balcony and announces he will leave for America.
Despite knowing her parents won't ever talk to her again, she decides to go with him.
Before they can leave, William comes in.
He tells Mary he will send her to Scotland to live with her grandmother.
After he leaves the room, Mary writes a farewell letter and sneaks off with John.
By the time it's 1870, she lives with John in a poor house.
He works all day, while Mary is giving birth to a son.
One day, a gang threatens to kill John.
He wants to surrender so they won't kill Mary and the baby as well, but Mary demands him to fight.
He does as his wife tells him and eventually defeats the gang.
Years pass by.
In 1888, Mary celebrates her 39th birthday and is having contact with her family again.
She finds out John is having a mistress, Estelle.
Mary feels humiliated, but Estelle makes things worse when she confronts Mary with the fact she can't make her husband happy.
Mary grants her husband a divorce, but he doesn't want to leave her.
He admits he has had an affair with Estelle, but that it didn't mean anything.
They reunite, although John announces he has lost all of his money.
The film goes back to present, where Mary is told her husband has recovered from his illness.Secrets at the silentera.com databaseSecrets as produced on Broadway beginning December 25, 1922; Fulton TheatreA British regiment fires on Dr. Fu Manchu's home, killing his wife and child.
A young white girl, Lia Eltham, is left under his care; when she grows up, he uses her as an instrument for revenge.
Opposing Manchu are Police Inspector Nayland Smith and Dr. Jack Petrie.Mavis Ray  is a young debutant living with her mother and with the backing of Hugo Harlan , whom she calls her uncle.
She is in love with socialite Jerry Croker-Kelley , and goes with him to meet his family against Harlan's wishes.
Mavis and Jerry wish to elope if they cannot get Harlan's permission to marry.
At Jerry's house, Mavis finds herself ill at ease with Jerry's family, who live simply despite their wealth.
When Harlan comes to the house, he takes Jerry aside and tells him something that causes him to abandon his relationship with Mavis.
Dejected, Mavis later begins falling for her chauffeur, Patrick Michael Regan .
He begins falling for her as well, not caring when Mavis reveals that Harlan is not her uncle, but her lover, and that the woman she calls her mother is actually hired help.
However, Patrick's sister , feels as if this relationship will harm Patrick.
She unsuccessfully attempts to speak to Mavis, dying shortly afterwards in childbirth.
Not long afterwards, Patrick gets into a car accident.
While Patrick is recovering from his wounds, Mavis takes care of his children.
However, she considers herself unworthy of him.
After breaking off her relationship with Harlan, Mavis runs away.
Several months later, Mavis, who is now working as a nurse, encounters Patrick, who has become a taxi driver.
The two decide to try and have a relationship.The setting of the film is 1920s London.
Sir Roger Balfour is found shot to death in his home.
Inspector Burke  of Scotland Yard is called in to investigate.
The suspects are Williams , Sir James Hamlin  and his nephew, Arthur Hibbs .
A suicide note is found and the case is supposedly closed.
Five years later, the old residence of Balfour is taken up by a man in a beaver-skin hat, with large fangs and gruesome, sunken eyes.
His assistant is a ghostly woman, with flowing robes and raven black hair.
Could it be Balfour, returned from the dead?The gang play baseball until they are run off from the lot.
They then get quarantined in a neighbor’s house for a week and wreak the usual havoc.The Sky Pilot arrives in a rough and tumble northern town intent on bringing religion to the tough residents of a small cattle town.
At first they reject him, but in time he wins the residents over with his prowess.
A plot to steal cattle is uncovered and disrupted.
Gwen, daughter of the Old Timer, is injured in a stampede, looses her ability to walk, but recovers thanks to the power of love.Arrogant and impudent Brice Wayne , a West Point cadet who is a star player on the football team, painfully learns the error of his ways when, after a year, he realizes that he hasn't acquired the proper school spirit.
Dismissed from the football team shortly before the Army-Navy match, Brice resigns from the Military Academy, then retracts when his friends Tex McNeil  and Betty Channing  encourage him to stay.
Restored to the team, Brice scores the decisive goal in the game against Navy.Resourceful and engaging Fay Cheyney, posing as a wealthy Australian widow at a Monte Carlo hotel, befriends Mrs. Webley with the intention of stealing her pearl necklace, a plot devised by Charles, her butler and partner-in-crime.
Complicating the situation are the romantic feelings she develops for Lord Arthur Dilling, Mrs. Webley's nephew.
While taking the necklace during a party in the Webley home, Fay is caught by Arthur, who threatens to expose her unless she submits to him.
Rather than compromise her principles, she confesses to her hostess, who plans to contact the police until Lord Elton, another guest, recalls Fay has a love letter he wrote her that could prove to be embarrassing to everyone present.
They offer her money in exchange for the letter and her freedom, but when she destroys the letter and refuses their payment, they welcome her back into their social circle.
{{Expand section}} Grace Durland is a young debutante who is forced to leave college when her father goes bankrupt.
While working for a living, she falls in love with Ward Trenton.
As she reveals her love for a married man to her family, the reaction is very negative.
Ward's evil wife refuses to grant him a divorce.
This changes when he suffers a car accident.A baby boy is found abandoned in a Hell's Kitchen tenement and subsequently is raised by three men: a German delicatessen owner , a Jewish tailor , and an Irish street cleaner .
They adopt the boy and raise him as their own.
The timeline jumps 20 years into their future.
The now-grown Mike  resists going to college because he does not wish to be a financial burden to his adoptive fathers, however a pretty Italian girl, Mary  working at the delicatessen convinces him to go.
Mike enrolls at Yale and Mike gains a reputation as a sports hero.
He disavows his three fathers which leads to the Irishman giving him a thrashing in front of the boy's best friends.
He begins to associate with gamblers and ends up owing them money.
To settle his debts, they demand he purposely lose the school's big rowing match with Harvard.
His three fathers and the girl come to support him during the race, and he defies the gamblers and wins the race.
His three fathers then come forward to confront and deal with the gamblers.Marie  was an orphan adopted by a bar-owner and his wife in the port of Marseille, and now she is harshly exploited by them as a servant in the bar.
She is desired by Petit Paul , a thuggish layabout, but is secretly in love with Jean , a dockworker.
Marie is forced to leave with Petit Paul, but Jean follows them to a fairground where the two men fight.
In the brawl a policeman is stabbed and, while Petit Paul escapes, Jean is arrested and gaoled.
A year later, Jean rediscovers Marie, now with a sick baby and living with Petit Paul, who spends all their money on drink.
Jean tries to support Marie, aided by a crippled woman , who lives next door; but Petit Paul, warned by gossiping neighbours that Jean is seeing Marie, returns for a violent confrontation, this time armed with a gun.
In the ensuing struggle, the crippled woman obtains the gun and kills Petit Paul.
In an epilogue, we see Jean and Marie finally free to love each other, though their faces suggest that experience has taken its toll on their lives.The film begins with Ernie using his ingenuity to overcome his poverty and find a way to feed his little sister Farina and his steed, Dinah the mule.
He encounters Jackie, who is selling newspapers, and learns about a kidnapper who is at large.
Ernie then stumbles into a secret meeting of several young boys, including Mickey Daniels and Jack Davis, who call themselves the JJJ’s .
They tell him that he is unwelcome in their meeting unless he can tell them what good deed he has ever done.
He responds by spinning a long, and very unbelievable, tall tale of how he, Jackie, and Dinah rescued Peggy from the kidnappers.
At the end of his story he claims that he used his reward money to buy a whole town, name it Free Town, and make himself Mayor and Jackie the Chief of Police.
It is a beautiful town where all the children have plenty to eat, have nice clothes, and can have all the cake and candy they want.
The story, and the film, ends with reality as Ernie’s mother finds him and hauls him and Farina back home.The film tells the story of Jack, a spy for the Confederacy during the Civil War, and his efforts to capture a Union shipment of gold.
Obstacles along the way include a pair of sisters, hostile Indians, and a firing squad.
The film features fictional incidents involving actual historical figures such as Abraham Lincoln, Brigham Young, and Sitting Bull.In the Latin Quarter of Paris, sculptress Margaret Dauncey is injured when the top of the huge statue of a faun  she is working on breaks off and falls on her.
After successful surgery by brilliant Dr. Arthur Burdon saves her from paralysis, she and Burdon fall in love.
The surgery is watched by various doctors and others, including Oliver Haddo, a hypnotist, magician and student of medicine.
Later, in the Library of the Arsenal, Haddo finds what he has been searching for: a magic formula for the creation of human life.
One of the ingredients is the "heart blood of a Maiden".
He rips out the page and presents the old book to Dr. Porhoet, Margaret's uncle and guardian, who has also been looking for it.
When Margaret, Burdon and Dr. Porhoet go to the Fair at Leon de Belfort, they encounter Haddo, whom Margaret dislikes immediately.
When Dr. Porhoet claims that the snake charmers use harmless snakes, Haddo refutes him and demonstrates his powers by letting a deadly horned viper bite him.
He then magically makes the wound disappear.
Porhoet remains unconvinced until the discarded viper strikes a young woman performer.
Burdon has to rush her to a hospital.
Later, Haddo visits Margaret uninvited.
He hypnotizes her and tells her to concentrate on her statue.
It seems to come to life to preside over an orgy.
Two days before her wedding to Burdon, Margaret receives a note from Haddo, asking her to see him the next morning.
She tries to resist the summons, but fails.
On the day of the wedding, Burdon learns that Margaret has married Haddo instead.
Porhoet is convinced it was against his niece's will, and Burdon tries to track them down.
Burdon eventually encounters the couple at a casino in Monte Carlo.
He and Porhoet free Margaret while Haddo is away.
Porhoet places her in a sanatorium to recover.
Haddo, however, finds her and takes her to his laboratory in a tower.
Burdon and Porhoet employ a guide to take them there.
Just as Haddo is about to stab a bound Margaret, Burdon bursts in.
After a violent struggle, Haddo falls into a huge fire and is killed.
Margaret emerges from her trance and is reunited with her true love.
Porhoet finds the page with the formula.
He burns it and sets the laboratory afire as well.The Blackbird  is a thief who uses a second identity when necessary: a rescue mission keeper with contorted legs, known as his bishop brother The Bishop.
He lives above a cheap bar in the Limehouse district, where his alter ego The Bishop is beloved among all guests, unlike The Blackbird himself.
One evenings, the police drops by looking for him after a robbery, and he flees to a vaudeville theater, where his ex-wife Limehouse Polly  has an act.
Since their divorce they have become bitter towards one another, but Polly is willing to admit that she once married The Blackbird 'because she saw the soul in him that he did not know he got himself'.
Furthermore, she admits to her father that she is still in love with him.
The Blackbird, though, has become infatuated by Mademoiselle Fifi Lorraine , another performer and Polly's rival.
He gives her a gun as a gift, explaining to her that someone as pretty as her should have a pistol or a man to protect her.
Fifi prefers a diamond collar, and turns to a much wealthier guest in turn, West End Bertie .
The Blackbird catches him stealing a diamond collar for Fifi, but after a battle, he is the one handing it over to her.
Nevertheless, Bertie wins her affection and takes her home at the end of the night.
When The Blackbird finds out that Bertie and Fifi have become engaged, he poses as The Bishop to reveal to Fifi that Bertie is a crook.
Bertie admits this, but twists the story to make him look sympathetic, thereby making Fifi fall for him even more.
Seeing how the plan backfired, The Blackbird turns Bertie in to a Scotland Yard inspector.
Before they can get him for robbery and murder, Fifi decides to help her fiance hide, something she afterwards reveals to The Bishop.
Seeing how she is now involved, The Blackbirds changes his plans and, posed as The Bishop, offers Bertie a bed in his secret room.
To drive them apart, The Bishop tells Bertie that he can not escape because the police are looking for him in the Limehouse district, and claims to Fifi that Bertie will escape that night, on his own.
Fifi offers Bertie to go along, but when he responds that he is not going because of the police, she thinks that he is lying to her and starts an argument.
During this, Bertie is set up to believe that Fifi told the cops on him, and she leaves in tears.
Meanwhile, Polly finds out that the police are also looking for The Blackbird for killing a Scotland Yarder.
Just as The Blackbird and Fifi are about to kiss, Polly drops by to share the terrible news.
Realizing the setting she has walked in, she turns her back at The Blackbird, which causes him to respond in anger, thereby scaring off Fifi.
At that moment, the police barges in.
The Blackbird is able to dress himself up as The Bishop, but falls and breaks his back during the process, thereby actually becoming cripple.
When Polly is asked to burn his clothes, she realizes that The Blackbird and The Bishop are the same.
In the end, Fifi and Bertie are reunited.
With Polly's help, The Blackbird is able to trick the police for a final time, but he dies in the aftermath.The story centers on an Asian woman named Onoto , who is rescued from slavery by a fugitive of European ancestry named Gregory Kent .
They fall in love, but prevailing mores about race doom the romance.
Onoto leaves Kent so that he may marry another .
The film was released by Warner Brothers Pictures on 7 April 1928.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0018804/ The only known surviving copy is kept at the Museo del Cine in Buenos Aires, Argentina.http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/05/movies/05metropolis.html A trailer for this film survives among the holdings of the Library of Congress.http://www.silentera.com/PSFL/data/C/CrimsonCity1928.html Accessed 2012-08-07Mickey was apparently trying to fly an airplane to imitate Charles Lindbergh.
After building his own airplane, he did a flight simulation to ensure that the plane is safe for flight but the flight failed, destroying the plane.
Using a roadster and remains of his plane to create another plane, he asks Minnie to join him for its first flight after she presents him with a horseshoe for good luck.
They take an out-of-control flight with exaggerated, impossible situations.
An un-anthropomorphic cow briefly "rides" the aircraft.
This is Clarabelle Cow making her first appearance, though the cow is actually an early, more "cowlike" predecessor of Clarabelle named Carolyn.
Once Mickey regains control of the plane, he repeatedly tries to kiss Minnie.
When she refuses, he uses force: he breaks her concentration and terrifies her by throwing her out of the airplane, catching her with the airplane, and he uses this to kiss her.
Minnie then parachutes out of the plane using her bloomers.
While distracted by her, Mickey loses control of the plane and eventually crashes into a tree.
Minnie then lands, and Mickey laughs at her.
Minnie then storms off, rebuffing him.
Mickey then angrily throws the good luck horseshoe given to him by Minnie and it boomerangs around a tree, hitting him and ringing around his neck.www.weirdspace.dk The 1921 film is a fictional story inspired by the history of World War I. Madariaga "The Centaur" , a harsh but popular Argentine landowner, has a German son-in-law whom he dislikes and a French one whose family he openly favors.
He is particularly fond of his grandson Julio , with whom he often carouses at seedy dives in the Boca district of Buenos Aires.
In one of these bars, the movie's famous tango sequence occurs.
A man and a woman are dancing the tango.
Julio strides up and asks to cut in.
The woman stares at Julio alluringly.
The man brushes him off, and they resume dancing.
Julio then challenges the man and strikes him, knocking him into some tables and out of the scene.
Julio and the woman then dance a dramatic version of the tango that brings cheers from the people in the establishment.
Following the dance, the woman sits on Julio's lap.
Madariaga then slides to the floor, drunk.
The woman laughs at Madariaga.
Julio casts her aside in scorn and helps his grandfather home.
Sometime later, Madariaga dies.
The extended family breaks up, one half returning to Germany and the other to France.
In Paris, Julio enjoys a somewhat shiftless life as a would-be artist and sensation at the local tea dances.
He falls in love with Marguerite Laurier , the unhappy and much younger wife of Etienne Laurier, a friend of Julio's father.
The affair is discovered, and Marguerite's husband agrees to give her a divorce.
It seems as though Julio and Marguerite will be able to marry, but both end up getting caught up in the Great War.
Marguerite becomes a nurse in Lourdes.
The bravery of Etienne is reported, and he is blinded in battle.
Etienne happens to end up at the hospital where she is working, and Marguerite attends to him there.
Julio travels to Lourdes to see Marguerite and instead sees her taking care of Etienne.
Julio, ashamed of his wastrel life, enlists in the French Army.
The German Army overruns Julio's father Marcelo's Marne Valley castle in the First Battle of the Marne.
Marcelo is forced to host a German general and staff in the castle.
Marcelo's German nephew is amongst the staff and tries to protect him, but Marcelo is arrested after a melee involving an officer's assault of a woman.
Marcello is to be executed in the morning, but his life is spared when the French Army counterattacks in the "Miracle of the Marne".
Julio becomes renowned for his bravery in the trenches on the front.
During a mission in no man's land, he recognizes his German cousin.
Moments later they are both killed by a shell.
Back in Paris, Marguerite considers abandoning the blinded Etienne, but Julio's ghost guides her to continue her care for him.
Both families mourn for their fallen sons as the film ends.The movie follows a brilliant ventriloquist "The Great Gabbo"  who, as he spirals down into madness, increasingly uses his dummy "Otto" as his only means of self-expression—an artist driven insane by his work.
Gabbo's gimmick is his astonishing ability to make Otto talk—and even sing—while Gabbo himself smokes, drinks and eats.
Gabbo's girlfriend and assistant  loves him, but is driven to another performer  by Gabbo's deteriorating personality.Nolff, a devout Breton fisherman, has taken a vow of silence and lives as a hermit beside the sea.
No-one comes near him except the white-clad novice who brings him food.
Years before... Full of contempt for mankind and life on land, Nolff has built his house on a remote cliff-top, and devotes himself to his fishing and to his wife and children: his daughter Djenna, hard-working and dutiful, and his son Michel whom he idolises and is determined to bring up as "a free man, a sailor".
But Michel is selfish and exploits his father's blind affection, and as he grows up, hating the sea, he becomes addicted to the pleasures of the town, lured into bad behaviour by his friend Guenn-la-Taupe.
At an Easter celebration, the only occasion of the year when Nolff and his family join the townspeople in their festivities, Nolff's wife becomes ill, and while she is taken home Michel escapes to a disreputable bar in the town to consort with the dancer Lia.
Djenna comes to fetch him to his mother's bedside, but Michel slips back into the bar, where he gets into a fight with Lia's protector and stabs him.
Nolff pays for Michel's release from gaol, but when they return home, they find his mother dead.
Needing money to spend on Lia, Michel steals the savings which his mother had kept for Djenna, but he is caught and denounced by Nolff, who vows "to return him to God".
Nolff ties Michel in the bottom of an open boat and pushes it out to sea.
He then adopts the life of a hermit beside the sea, while Djenna enters a convent.
Months later, Djenna receives a letter from Michel: he has survived and is now a changed man, earning his living as a sailor.
When Nolff hears that Michel wants to return home, he cries out to the sea in remorse for his judgment of his son.The Boy  is an idle playboy and heir to $20 million, relaxing at an exclusive resort.
When he sees "The Girl" , surrounded by a flock of admirers, he suddenly asks her to marry him.
Taken aback, she sends him to get the approval of her father, a tough, hardworking steel magnate.
The girl's father knows and disapproves of the Boy's indolence, and demands that he first get a job to prove that he can do something.
The Boy sees a recruiting poster and applies to join the United States Navy.
When the magnate decides to take a long cruise on his yacht, he tells his daughter to bring along her friends.
She invites the Boy, but he finds he cannot get out of his three year enlistment.
Aboard ship, he makes an enemy of intimidating sailor "Rough-House" O'Rafferty , but when O'Rafferty throws a box at the Boy and strikes a passing officer, the Boy steps up and accepts the blame.
He and O'Rafferty then become good friends.
The Girl and her friends stop off at the port of Agar Shahar Khairpura, the "City of a Thousand Rascals", in the country of Khairpura-Bhandanna, to sightsee, just as the Boy and O'Rafferty get shore leave there.
The Girl is delighted to see the Boy and rushes into his arms.
However, she has also attracted the attention of the Maharajah of Khairpura-Bhandanna .
The potentate has her kidnapped and taken to his palace.
The Boy rushes to her rescue and single handedly manages to outwit the Maharajah and his guards and escape with the Girl.
Later, the Boy uses signal flags from his ship to ask with the Girl on her father's yacht, "Will you?"
With her father's approval, she sends a signal back, "I will".The "Little Tramp"  heads to a resort for warm weather and a bit of golf.
At the golf course, the Tramp's theft of balls in play causes one golfer  to mistakenly attack another ([[John Rand .
Meanwhile, a neglected wife  leaves her wealthy husband  until he gives up drinking.
When the Tramp is later mistaken for a pickpocket, he crashes a masquerade ball to escape from a policeman.
There, he is mistaken for the woman's husband.
Eventually, it is all straightened out, and the Tramp is once more on his way.A hobo, played by Will Rogers tells of his adventure as a child when he tried to raise the money to buy his mother a hat for her birthday.Fleeing a group of forest rangers, who are rounding up tramps to serve as firefighters, they take refuge in a mansion.
The owner has gone on vacation and the servants are away, so Hardy pretends to be the owner and offers to rent the house to an English couple.
Hardy gets Laurel to pose as the maid.
Unfortunately, the owner returns and tells the would-be renters that he owns the house.
Laurel and Hardy then flee again and are caught by the rangers and forced to fight wildfires.Harvard University student Tom Brown  is a handsome, athletic, and carefree young man who has a reputation as a Don Juan among the ladies.
Although he is popular on campus, he finds himself at odds with Bob McAndrew , a studious, reserved boy who becomes his chief rival for the affections of beautiful Mary Abbott , a professor's daughter.
Tom rooms with Jim Doolittle , an awkward weakling but goodhearted backwoods youth who idolizes him.
The brash and cocky Brown easily wins over his dormitory mates, but refuses to let them ostracize Jim.
One night at a party, Tom forcibly kisses Mary, which initiates a fight with Bob.
Afterwards, Tom challenges Bob to a rowing competition; Bob is stroker on the college rowing team.
Tom ends up losing.
When he forces a confession of love from Mary, he begins to drink in shame.
When he replaces Bob in a match against Yale, Tom collapses and is disgraced.
He is persuaded by his father to go out for football.
To save his friend's reputation, the sickly Jim goes out and takes his place in the rain and is soon hospitalized.
Tom plays in the game against Yale and at a crucial point gives Bob a chance to score for the team.
After the game, Tom goes to the hospital to tell Jim of the victory, but Jim dies shortly afterward.
Tom is acclaimed a school hero and is happily united with Mary.Lulu  is the mistress of a respected, middle-aged newspaper publisher, Dr. Ludwig Schön .
One day, she is delighted when an old patron Schigolch  shows up at her door.
However, when Schön also arrives, she has Schigolch hide on the terrace.
Schön breaks the news to Lulu that he is going to marry Charlotte von Zarnikow , the daughter of the Minister of the Interior.
Lulu tries to get him to change his mind, but when he discovers the disreputable-looking Schigolch, he leaves.
Schigolch introduces Lulu to Rodrigo Quast , who wants her to join his new trapeze act.
The next day, Lulu goes to see her best friend Alwa , who happens to be Schön's son.
Schön is greatly displeased to see her, but comes up with the idea to have her star in his son's musical production to get her off his hands.
However, Schön makes the mistake of bringing Charlotte to see the revue.
When Lulu refuses to perform in front of her rival, Schön takes her into a storage room to try to persuade her otherwise, but she seduces him instead.
Charlotte finds them embracing.
A defeated Schön resigns himself to marrying Lulu.
While the wedding reception is underway, he is disgusted to find Lulu playfully cavorting with Schigolch and Quast in the bedchamber.
He gets his pistol and chases the interlopers out.
The shocked guests leave while Lulu claims that Shigolch is her father.
Once they are alone, Schön insists his new wife take the gun and shoot herself.
When Lulu refuses, the gun goes off in the ensuing struggle, and Schön is killed.
At her murder trial, Lulu is sentenced to five years for manslaughter.
However, Schigolch and Quast trigger a fire alarm and spirit her away in the confusion.
When Alwa finds her back in the Schön home, he confesses his feelings for her and they decide to flee the country.
Countess Augusta Geschwitz ([[Alice Roberts , herself infatuated with Lulu, lets the fugitive use her passport.
On the train, Lulu is recognized by another passenger, Marquis Casti-Piani .
He offers to keep silent in return for money.
He also suggests a hiding place, a ship used as an illegal gambling den.
After several months however, Casti-Piani sells Lulu to an Egyptian for his brothel, and Quast blackmails Lulu for financing for his new act.
Desperate for money to pay them off, Alwa cheats at cards, but is caught at it.
Lulu turns to Schigolch for help.
He has Geschwitz lure Quast to a stateroom, where she murders him.
Then Schigolch, Lulu, and Alwa flee.
They end up living in squalor in a drafty London garret.
On Christmas Eve, driven to prostitution, Lulu has the misfortune of picking a remorseful Jack the Ripper  as her first client.
Though he protests he has no money, she likes him and invites him to her lodgings anyway.
Schigolch drags Alwa away before they are seen.
Jack is touched and secretly throws away his knife.
Inside however, he spots another knife on the table and cannot resist his urges.
Unaware of Lulu's fate, Alwa deserts her, joining a passing Salvation Army parade.In Austria the Christian Social Party comes to power, and the new Chancellor Dr.&nbsp;Schwerdtfeger, a fanatical anti-Semite, sees his people as being ruled by the Jews.
He therefore has a law passed by the National Assembly forcing all Jews to emigrate by the end of the year.
The law is enthusiastically received by the non-Jewish population, and the Jews leave the country.
But after a short time a sober reality makes itself felt.
Cultural life becomes impoverished: in the theatres only plays by Ludwig Ganghofer and Ludwig Anzengruber are still performed.
Many cafes are empty, or are converted into beer halls selling sausages.
After an initial upturn, the economy declines, as business has greatly diminished, and has moved to other cities, such as Prague and Budapest.
Inflation and unemployment run wild.
The political characters of the book  are delineated in such a way as to be identifiable with real politicians of the period: Bundeskanzler Schwerdtfeger, for example, is based on Ignaz Seipel.
Besides the political action, the film also dwells on the love relationship between Lotte , a typical Viennese girl  and the daughter of a member of the National Assembly who voted for the banishment of the Jews, and the Jewish artist Leo Strakosch .
Towards the end of the film the National Assembly resolves to bring the Jews back again.
However, in order to achieve the necessary two-thirds majority, Lotte and Leo, who has already illegally returned to Austria with forged papers identifying him as a French painter, have to remove the anti-Semitic Parliamentary representative Bernard (played by [[Hans Moser , which they do by getting him drunk.
The drama reaches a peak as he is committed to a psychiatric institution represented in Expressionist scenery, where in a claustrophobic and asymmetrically painted cell he sees himself threatened by Stars of David.
This sequence also represents the divergence of the film from the book, as the action of the film is revealed as a dream of the anti-Semitic Councillor Bernard.
This surprising turn of events was described in the original film programme as follows: "In this moment of the highest distress Councillor Bernard awakes from his dream, finds himself in the tavern at a very late hour and says to the baffled Volbert: 'Thank God that stupid dream is over - we are all just people and we don't want hate - we want life - we want to live together in peace.
'""Gottlob, daß der dumme Traum vorbei ist – wir sind ja alle nur Menschen und wollen keinen Haß – Leben wollen wir – ruhig nebeneinander leben".
Kivur, Nr.
1346, o.J., o.S.Henpecked Stan and Ollie have been secretly saving for a night on the town away from the wives.
When Stan's wife discovers the scheme, she replaces Stan's hidden loot with cigar coupons.
The boys are unable to settle a huge restaurant bill, and their evening ends in a pie-throwing brawl in the restaurant's kitchen.As the film opens, 'Blackie' Daw arrives in the town of Battlesburg, Iowa.
Daw has little money, but makes it known that J. Rufus Wallingford, a wealthy businessman, will be arriving in town soon and is interested in finding good investments.
When Wallingford arrives, he and the townspeople hatch a scheme to build a factory, but they cannot decide what the factory should produce.
Wallingford suggests carpet tacks, which he insists will interest other investors, and the townspeople agree.
As the film progresses, the company's stockholders begin to doubt Wallingford who is, in fact, a con man.
He is able to assuage their doubts.
The establishment of the factory begins a real estate boom, and Wallingford and Daw are planning to skip town with the money they've gained.
But just before they do, a wealthy financier buys out Wallingford's interest and the factory makes a large sale of carpet tacks.
As a result, Wallingford and Daw become wealthy by honest means.
They both end the film by finding women to marry, Wallingford to his stenographer Fannie Jasper and Daw to Dorothy Wells, daughter of a prominent townsperson.
{{cite web}}The Karnival Kid is broken into two distinct segments.
The first segment features Mickey selling hot dogs at a carnival.
The second segment is set later that night and features Mickey, accompanied by two cats, in a moonlight serenade.
The short opens to the scene of a bustling carnival.
After a few initial sight gags, the action quickly focuses on Kat Nipp, a barker at the carnival who is enticing a crowd to see Minnie, "the Shimmy Dancer."
Mickey stands nearby, selling hot dogs and heckling Nipp.
Nipp briefly gets into a dispute with Mickey over a dancing doll scam.
However, Minnie soon notices Mickey and calls him over to order a hot dog.
She takes a coin out of her stocking to pay, but Mickey, who is clearly attracted to her, refuses to accept the coin and gives it to her for free.
When she bites into the hot dog, it screams and runs away.
Mickey catches it and spanks it, concluding the first segment.
Much of the humor in this segment comes from the interaction between Mickey and his hot dogs, with the latter tending to act like actual dogs in relation to their owner/trainer.
In the second segment, Mickey attempts to draw Minnie's attention by playing guitar outside her window.
He is joined by two alley cats who noisily sing along.
The sound delights Minnie but awakens an irate Kat Nipp, who had been resting in a nearby trailer.
Nipp starts throwing things at the three annoyances in an attempt to silence them.
The short ends as Mickey is hit with an entire bed and knocked dizzy.
Stalling's score for The Karnival Kid features two notable themes.
During the "Shimmy Dance" sequence, a monkey, performing as a one-man band, plays the Snake Charmer song, the common name for The Streets of Cairo.
During the moonlight serenade segment, Mickey and the cats perform a rendition of the barbershop standard Sweet Adeline.At 40, businesswoman Jane Vale  falls in love with a much younger Robert Elliott , a employee from her factory.
She promotes him to the position of her private secretary, and out of gratitude and to defend her reputation from rumors, he asks her to marry him.
However, before the marriage can take place, Jane's younger sister Dorothy  returns home from college and Robert and Dorothy fall in love.
Lacking the courage to confess to Jane of his love for her sister, Robert marries Jane.
Robert finds that the difference in ages between him and Jane are creating complications.
When Jane realizes that Robert, though diligently attentive as a husband, is actually in love with her sister, she pretends that she has fallen out of love with him and seeks a divorce.Mrs.
Newell is jealous of her son Oliver's interest in Penelope Mason and she does everything she can to keep the two apart.
She fakes an illness and travels to a resort with Oliver, separating him from his sweetheart.
However, while there, he catches the eye of the designing Enid Morton, a married woman.
Enid’s husband is the jealous type.
After some near-disastrous situations with Enid's suspicious husband, Mrs. Newell realizes the mistake she has made in keeping her son away from Penelope.
She convinces Penelope to come to Oliver's rescue.Söfren, a recent seminary graduate, and his fiancee Mari make their way on foot through a Norwegian forest to a village where a church is in need of a pastor.
Mari's father won't allow her to marry until Söfren obtains a full-time church assignment.
Söfren learns that he is competing with two other men who are affluent scholars from Copenhagen.
The three men wait outside the church until the verger calls them in, one by one, to deliver their trial sermons.
The first candidate delivers a sermon on the creation story that promptly puts the entire congregation to sleep.
The second candidate is summoned and announces that his sermon topic is "Balaam's ass and God's strange power by which He was able to open the jaws of a dumb animal so that it might speak like a man!"
' The verger comes out to summon Söfren and finds him doing handstands.
Söfren bounds into the church, surveys the congregation and begins: "Now, two learned applicants have appeared here before me.
One of them took us to Eden, and that is as far back as we can go.
Let him stay there!
The other one chose the text: Am I Not An Ass?
But what has an ass to do on the pulpit?
My friends, I will not take you to Eden -- you are too clever.
But I will take you to the bowels of the earth, deep in the roaring jaws of Hell!"
The congregation is enthralled by Söfren's "fire and brimstone" sermon.
Söfren concludes: "And so my friends, beware that you are not swallowed up by the roaring jaws of Hell!"
Söfren's rivals from Copenhagen host a dinner for the townspeople and feel obliged to invite Söfren.
The church committee announces that Söfren is their choice for pastor.
The committee spokesman then adds that Margarete Pedersdotter, the widow of the previous pastor, has exercised her right to demand that her husband's successor marry her.
Dame Margarete, who is at least a half-century older than Söfren, enters the room.
The two pastoral candidates from Copenhagen bolt from the room, hastily climb on their horses and gallop away.
Margarete doesn't take a seat near Söfren but chooses to sit next to the fireplace.
Gradually the townspeople also leave the dining hall.
After a lengthy period of silence, Margarete approaches Söfren and asks, in that it has grown dark outside, if he would walk with her to the parsonage.
When they reach the parsonage, Margarete invites Söfren inside.
As Söfren takes note of the fine furnishings, Magarete lays out another repast, which Söfren devours greedily despite having just come from the town dinner.
While he is eating, Margarete asks Söfren if he has a fiancee.
Söfren hesitates, then assures her that he does not.
Margarete mentions that it is much too late for Söfren to head back to the inn and suggests he stay in an upstairs room.
The next morning Söfren puts on a fine suit of clothes, far superior to his own garments, that was laid out by his bed during the night.
Söfren goes downstairs.
Margarete is sewing and the table has been set with a fine breakfast of herring, bread and butter, and a canister of schnapps.
After Söfren finishes the schnapps, Margarete takes on the appearance of a smiling 20-year-old.
Margarete asks if he would like to marry her; Söfren replies in the affirmative.
Margarete calls in her two servants from the next room as witnesses of Söfren's proposal.
Margarete assures Söfren they will have separate sleeping quarters and maintain separate lives.
Söfren leaves to tell Mari what has happened, and Margarete follows at a distance.
A tearful Mari asks Söfren how Margarete bewitched him and Söfren suggests she had hexed the herring.
Margarete arrives and confronts Söfren -- who is this woman?
Söfren replies that Mari is his sister and asks that she be allowed to stay in the parsonage, to which Margarete assents.
Söfren and Margarete are married.
The next morning, Söfren is upset when Margarete's female servant shakes debris from a rug on him from a balcony.
Margarete's male servant gives Söfren a raspberry when asked to stop whistling.
Söfren confronts Margarete: "In the future, I suggest you and your companions be less high and mighty.
For I am master of this house."
Margarete goes to a window and taps on it to summon the bearish male servant.
She instructs him: "Master Söfren is too big for his boots.
Give him a drubbing!"
Afterward, Margarete advises her husband: "I suggest you concentrate on prayer and sermons.
Do not play master here.
I am master of this house!"
Söfren makes several unsuccessful attempts to have time alone with Mari.
One day he notices Margarete climb the ladder to the loft of the barn.
Söfren removes the ladder, hoping to trap Margarete in the loft, and goes in search of Mari.
Mari, however, is also in the loft, and she starts to climb down without noticing that the ladder has been moved.
Mari falls to the ground and Söfren rushes over and calls up a warning to Margarete: "Be careful, Dame Margarete!
The ladder is gone!"
Söfren carried Mari into the house and learns that she has broken a thigh bone and suffered a concussion but will recover.
Margarete takes on the role of Mari's nurse and, in return, Söfren begins to grow fond of Margarete.
One day, as Margarete and Söfren sit by Mari's bedside, Margarete confesses: "My first husband and I were engaged for many years when he applied for the post here and learned he could have it only if he wedded the parson's widow.
We knew that the widow was weak and could scarcely live long.
It was a sore temptation to us.
God forgive us ... we built our happiness on the hope of another's death."
That prompted Söfren to confess: "Mari and I are not sister and brother -- she is my fiancee.
We have also waited for your death, Dame Margarete."
Margarete appears to have initially been taken aback, then her face softens and she murmurs "Poor children!"
From that moment, Söfren and Mari have no trouble spending time together and Margarete spends most of her time in the churchyard, visiting her husband's grave.
One morning Margarete does not come down to breakfast.
Söfren and Mari go to her bedroom, where they find her in a peaceful repose after dying in her sleep.
Söfren finds a note beside the bed: "Do not forget, when my mortal remains are taken away, to put a horseshoe over the door and to strew linseed after me so that I shall not haunt you."
Margarete is buried beside her husband.
As Söfren and Mari stand over her grave, Söfren remarks: "We owe her a great debt, Mari.
She taught you to keep a good home and she taught me to be an honorable man.
"In 1806 in the village of Pontresina, Switzerland, a mountain man named Marcus  is in love with Ciglia , a young village woman who has been rejecting the advances of Lorenz .
The mischievous Pia  throws herself at Marcus, but she is also rejected.
Marcus and Ciglia profess their love, while the jealous and vindictive Pia looks on.
Following the end of the French Army occupation, the people of Pontresina celebrate their liberation with a boisterous masked dance.
At the party Ciglia becomes frightened of a drunken Marcus and she asks to be taken home.
Marcus goes home confused.
When Pia boldly attempts to seduce Marcus, he accepts her advances.
The next day Ciglia receives permission from her uncle Tass  to marry Marcus.
Pia and her mother approach Tass, and then confront Marcus.
With Ciglia overhearing, they demand that Marcus marry Pia, who plays the cowering innocent.
Ciglia leaves Marcus, and Marcus and Pia get married.
Lorenz soon takes advantage of Ciglia and eventually they also get married.
During a heavy snowstorm, Pia is worried about Marcus and tries to form a rescue party to find him.
With no one willing to join, she turns to Lorenz and Ciglia.
Ciglia overreacts to the news, making Lorenz suspicious about her affections.
Ciglia soon discovers Marcus safely arriving in the village.
Consumed in jealously and sorrow, Lorenz confronts Marcus, urging him to leave the village, even offering him money, but Marcus refuses.
Later in the mountains, Lorenz ambushes Marcus and the two exchange gunfire.
Marcus returns to the village, followed by the accusing and dying Lorenz.
The villagers turn against Marcus despite Ciglia's cries of his innocence.
Pia falsely accuses Ciglia of putting Marcus up to the murder of Lorenz.
Soon the villagers turn into a mob and pursue Marcus and Ciglia into the mountains.
With no other recourse, Marcus and Ciglia walk hand in hand into the path of an avalanche.The storyline was based on traditional legend concerning Leif Ericson and the first Viking settlers to reach North America by sea.Molly Kelly  intends to marry a millionaire.
When she meets Andy Charles, Jr. , heir to a restaurant fortune, she sees her chance and marries him.
Upon discovering the marriage, Andy's father  becomes irate and disinherits his son.
Andy attempts life as a ditch-digger to support his wife, but the results are not what he had hoped for.The hero's  preoccupation with chess leads to him missing his own wedding ceremony, but the marital peace is restored with the help of the World Chess Champion, José Raúl Capablanca.The Queen of Sardalia is in a bad marriage with the brutal King Constantine II.
She decides to get away from her normal life for a period and goes on vacation to Switzerland.
There, she meets Paul Verdayne.
They have an affair, which lasts for three weeks.New York Times OverviewWanderer of the Wasteland was based on Zane Grey's 1923 novel of two brothers, one an honest cowpoke, the other a gambler.
When Adam Larey ([[Jack Holt  confronts his younger brother Guerd  about his gambling addiction, the latter is accidentally shot.
A distraught Adam, believing he has killed his own brother, flees into the desert.
He later learns that Guerd was merely wounded and returns to the loving arms of beautiful Billie Dove.Raffles  is an English gentleman with a secret life&mdash;he is the notorious jewel thief known as "The Amateur Cracksman".
While sailing from India to England accompanied by his friend, Bunny Manners , it is rumored that the infamous cracksman is aboard ship.
Raffles warns a lady passenger to keep an eye on her necklace, which is stolen soon afterward.
Although a search reveals no evidence, the necklace is returned upon reaching London.
Lord Amersteth  and his wife, Lady Amersteth , are having a party at their home and Raffles attends.
Another guest, noted criminologist Captain Bedford , makes the assertion that a very valuable string of pearls cannot be stolen.
Encouraged by this, Raffles steals it.
He has also stolen the heart of Gwendolyn Amersteth , the daughter of his hosts.
Capt.
Bedford finally captures him, but he escapes with Gwendolyn's help and they run away to be married.
Raffles returns the pearls and promises to retire from being a burglar.The story tells of Harry Howells , a recent college graduate who's madly in love with his sweetheart Ethel  and hopes to marry her.
His woman hating uncle, however, Fire chief Amos McCarthy , tells his nephew to avoid marriage because all women want is money.
Even though Harry is determined to marry Ethel, it seems his uncle was right: Ethel is a gold-digger.
Harry is crestfallen.
Her sister, Mary Morgan , however, is very interested in Harry.
Still, unhappy, Harry spends the night in the firehouse.
That night the fire alarm goes off, and it gives hapless Harry a chance to prove his mettle.Sophie Tucker plays Sophie Leonard, a singer in a nightclub who at great sacrifice sends her daughter Beth  to Europe to be educated, keeping her work as an entertainer a secret from her.
When the grown-up, expensively educated Beth returns to America, she is shocked to discover her mother's true profession and disowns her, breaking Sophie's heart.Tina  is the drudge of the Red Mill Tavern in Holland.
She works hard and long hours, with her only company being a mouse, named Ignatz.
Willem  is the mean Tavern proprietor who catches her feeding the mouse.
He is outraged and scares away the mouse and takes it out on Tina.
Dennis Wheat  is a foreigner who came to the Netherlands for the damsels.
He was accompanied by his valet Caesar Rinkle .
One day, Tina notices and immediately falls in love with him.
She sneaks out of the tavern to be closer to him and hears him saying he will judge an ice skating race.
The winner of the race will be kissed by him.
Tina decides to enter and wins.
When Dennis is about to kiss her, Willem storms out and takes Tina with him.
She later finds out Dennis is leaving town and becomes sad.
Tina goes back to her hard working days and fantasizes about Dennis returning.
Dennis returns in the spring and takes an interest in the Burgomaster's daughter Gretchen , who is about to marry the Governor  but actually is in love with Captain Jacop Van Goop .
Jacop sends Gretchen a letter, begging her to elope with him at night.
Gretchen has to cross her overprotecting father if she wants to leave the house and does not think there is any chance she will be able to leave the house.
Tina, however, helps her escape successfully by dressing up like her and Gretchen dressing up like Tina.
After Gretchen has left, Dennis sneaks into the house to meet the woman he noticed.
He kisses Tina, thinking it is Gretchen.
Gretchen goes back home when she is scared after Tina's mouse ran into her shoe.
Meanwhile, Caesar overhears someone saying Gretchen will inherit her grandfather's estate the day she marries and immediately informs Dennis.
Jacop climbs on a ladder leading to Gretchen's room to reunite with her.
Dennis sees this and thinks Jacop is kissing the same girl he kissed.
He is mad and throws a stone to him, making him fall off his ladder through the window of the tavern.
Tina comes up, still dressed up as Gretchen, and tells Dennis Jacop was a relative and it was only a formal kiss.
She promises to elope with him in the morning.
The next day, Gretchen is forced to marry the governor.
She begs Tina to save her, before she leaves with her father.
Tina eventually scares everyone away with her mouse and sneaks off with Gretchen.
Gretchen is reunited with Jacop, but Tina is being chased by the wedding guests and the burgomaster.
Willem finds her hiding in the tavern and locks her up in a mill, which is rumored to be haunted by ghosts.
Tina is scared, but Dennis comes after her and protects himself with a gun.
An accident causes him to shoot Tina in the back.
They kiss and are happy, but find out Willem is after them with a shotgun.
Dennis and Tina escape through a window and can now finally love each other carefree.The film takes place in Seville, in a period where the city has sunk into the depths of depravity and sin.
Shocked by the depths his people have sunk to, The king of Spain  decides to give the town a visit when a carnaval is organized in order to redeem it.
One of its inhabitants is Rosita , a beloved street singer praised by the townspeople for her entertainment.
Rosita is the only source of income to her poor family, who are always fighting each other.
She is fed up with living in extreme poverty, while the king is living in wealth.
After being forced to pay taxes, Rosita is enraged and comes up with a song in which she insults the king.
Soon, the king is informed with the offensive ballad and visits her anonymously.
Instead of being angry, he is charmed by the woman.
However, the soldiers have come to arrest her for publicly insulting the king.
While being taken to prison, Don Diego  tries to defend her.
Instead of convincing the soldiers to set her free, however, he is arrested as well.
They fall in love at the police station, but she is unaware Diego is a powerful captain.
By the king's request, Rosita is set free and escorted to his castle.
Diego, however, is told he will be hung.
When she meets him, Rosita doesn't believe he is the king.
He tries to seduce her, but she isn't impressed until he offers her fashionable clothes.
She doesn't want to have anything to do with him, but is pressured into giving in on his advances by her family, who see an opportunity on becoming wealthy.
Living a luxurious live in the castle, the family still feels disrespected.
Rosita's mother  demands for her daughter to have a noble husband, and the king offers her to be married to Diego.
Rosita's mother is pleased, not knowing he will be sentenced to death shortly after the wedding.
Diego is manipulated into participating by the offer of being shot like a respectable soldier, rather than hanged.
At the wedding, they are married with their eyes covered, thus not knowing who they will be married to.
The king's plan fails when Rosita breaks the rules and looks at her future husband.
Rosita is shocked to learn her new husband is Diego, who is sent back to jail immediately.
Rosita convinces the king to set Diego free.
However, when she leaves, the king again orders the guards to kill Diego.
Meanwhile, the queen  has found out about his new fling and is furious.
Soon afterward, Rosita is informed that Diego has been executed.
Devastated, she attempts to kill the king until she and the king find out Diego is still alive, and the lovers are reunited.
The king leaves his castle to be confronted by his wife about his affair.
She reveals she ordered the guards to spare Diego.
Lee Clavering , a playwright in New York, falls in love with an Austrian countess .
An animated, precocious flapper Janet Oglethorpe  is also in love with him, but he hasn't noticed yet.
We learn that Countess is actually 58 years old, and has retained her youth through a rejuvenating glandular treatment and X-ray surgery.
Lee's plans to marry the countess are thwarted when one of her former admirers reveals her embarrassing secret and, in the end, Lee discovers happiness with Janet.http://www.clarabow.net/filmography/blackoxen.htmlhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0014721/plotsummaryBuster Keaton and Virginia Fox play young lovers who live in tenements, the rear of which face each other, with backyards separated by a wooden fence.
Their families feud over the lovers' relationship, resulting in much mayhem and slapstick.Stable grooms Laurel and Hardy overhear news of a $5,000 reward for the return of the stolen painting Blue Boy, but think the reward is for the horse at their barn named Blue Boy.
When they bring the horse to the painting's owner, he speaks to them from an upstairs window where he can't see the steed; he tells them to bring Blue Boy in the house and put "him" on the piano.
This triggers a running gag where Ollie explains patiently to Stan that , the rich are different from you and me.
He punctuates his lesson with a twisting gesture of his hand to demonstrate the 180-degree difference between the classes.
The three come clumping through the front door while the millionaire upstairs takes a bath — "and it ain't even Saturday," a title card informs us.
Ollie has an altercation with a nude statue, which snaps into three pieces after the two tumble to the floor; Hardy, ever the gentleman, safeguards the statue's modesty by wrapping its bare torso in his coat while he reassembles it.
When the statue's back upright and Ollie removes the coat, the torso segment is backwards, so its backside protrudes out from where its midriff should be.
Wrong again!
Meanwhile, the suddenly obstreperous Blue Boy has taken to chasing Stanley around the house, while a cross-cut reveals that the police have recovered the Blue Boy painting and are making plans to return it.
Working together, The Boys manage to lead the horse over to the grand piano, and up he leaps to his high perch.
Shots of the millionaire upstairs in his tub reveal that he's at least hearing the commotion below.
Things seem fine — Blue Boy is placidly up on the piano as his owner has asked — when suddenly a piano leg gives way and Ollie is left literally holding things up, about a ton of piano and horse.
Stan rises to his usual degree of helpfulness as the horse, in a bravura performance, keeps nudging his derby off his head and Stan opts to keep retrieving the hat rather than help with the crisis at hand.
They finally get the piano leg wedged back under the instrument, but not before Ollie's head gets squished between the two.
The three agents of The Boys' undoing all then converge in a perfect storm of bad luck: the millionaire's mother returns home , the police arrive with the real Blue Boy, the recovered painting, and the refreshed millionaire descends from his bath to reveal the misunderstanding.
Ollie twiddles his tie, apologies for the "faux pas" and he and Stan and Blue Boy make a hasty exit, followed by the irate millionaire with a shotgun.
In the process, the priceless painting gets knocked to the floor on top of one of the detectives, whose face pops through the canvas in the exact right spot, replacing Blue Boy's face.
The short ends with a favorite Roach finale — a gag at the expense of a cop.
This one has the officer as the literal butt of the joke: his rump is still smoking from the pellets delivered by the millionaire's shotgun.Lovey Mary  is a runaway from an orphanage who takes a little companion and finds a home with poor and kind Mrs. Wiggs .
As a plus, the cheerful young girl also meets Mrs. Wiggs eldest son, Billy .In Vienna, Captain Karl von Raden  purchases a returned ticket to a sold-out opera and finds himself sharing a loge with a lovely woman .
Though she repulses his first advance, she does spend an idyllic day with him in the countryside.
Karl is called away to duty, however.
Colonel Eric von Raden , his uncle and the chief of the secret police, gives him secret plans to deliver to Berlin.
He also warns his nephew that the woman is Tania Fedorova, a Russian spy.
Tania comes to him aboard the train, professing to love him, but he tells her he knows who she is.
Dejected, she leaves.
The next morning, when Karl wakes up, he finds the plans have been stolen.
As a result, he is sentenced to military degradation and imprisonment for treason.
However, Colonel von Raden visits him in prison and arranges for his release.
He sends his nephew to Warsaw, posing as a Serbian pianist, to seek out the identity of the real traitor and thus exonerate himself.
In Warsaw, by chance, Karl is asked to play at a private party where he once again crosses paths with Tania.
She is being escorted by General Boris Alexandroff , the infatuated head of the Russian Military Intelligence Department.
Foolhardily, Karl plays a tune from the opera they attended together.
She recognizes it, but does not betray him.
As the party goers are leaving, she slips away for a few stolen moments with her love.
The jealous Alexandroff suspects their feelings for each other.
He hires Karl to play the next day at a ball he is giving at his mansion for Tania's birthday.
While Alexandroff and Tania are alone in his home office, he receives a parcel containing the latest secrets stolen by the traitor, whom he casually identifies as Max Heinrich.
Later, Tania steals the documents, gives them to Karl, and sends him out via a secret passage.
However, it is all a trap.
Alexandroff comes in and tells Tania that what she stole was mere blank paper; he shows her the real documents.
He pulls out a gun and announces that he intends to use it on Karl, who has been captured outside.
She struggles with Alexandroff and manages to fatally shoot him; the sound goes unheard amidst the merriment of the party.
When the guards bring the prisoner, she pretends the general is still alive and wants to see him alone.
She and Karl escape with the incriminating documents and get married.Mickey and the Scorpions decide to go on a big game hunt.
The kids go out into the woods, only find themselves up against real wild animals .The film tells of Kitty Darling , a burlesque star, who sends her young daughter to a convent to get her away from the sleazy burlesque environment she is involved in.
Many years later, Kitty is not doing so well and her best days are behind her.
She's now an alcoholic who lives in the past.
She lives with a burlesque comic named Hitch .
Hitch cheats on her and only cares about spending what little money she has.
When he finds out she has been paying for her daughter's convent education for over a decade, he pushes her into bringing April back home.
Her grown daughter April  returns.
Kitty is embarrassed by her condition and marries Hitch so that April will not be ashamed of her.
When April arrives, she is disgusted with her mother and her sad life.
Hitch tries to force her into show business and repeatedly gropes her, at one point forcing a kiss on her.
April roams the city and meets a lonely young sailor named Tony .
They fall in love and agree to marry and April will move to his home in Wisconsin.
When April goes to tell her mother about their plans she overhears Hitch belittling Kitty, calling her a "has-been."
April is upset and calls off her wedding.
She decides to join the chorus line of a burlesque show.
She says a reluctant goodbye to Tony at the subway.
Meanwhile, Kitty takes poison.
She goes downstairs to the show and collapses on a couch.
Knowing Kitty cannot perform in the show, the producer berates her.
April, over Kitty's objections, says she will take Kitty's place.
She tells Kitty she will take care of her now, like Kitty always did for April.
As April goes onstage, Kitty passes away, her head hanging over the edge of the couch.
April is disgusted at herself and cannot complete the show.
As she runs off the stage, none other than Tony is there to greet her.
He says he had a feeling she did not mean what she was saying.
She hugs him close and says she wants to go far away.
Not realizing Kitty is dead, she says they will need to take care of her mother too, and Tony agrees.
The final shot is a close-up of the Kitty Darling poster on the wall, behind Tony and April.Satan has been cast out from hell and banished to Earth under decree of heaven.
He can return, only through a series of temptations.
However, for every soul who gives in to his tempting, one hundred years are added to his sentence.
For every soul who resists, one thousand years are removed from his sentence.
The film follows Satan throughout much of recorded history.
Quoting the movie directly, God said to Satan, "But know thee that for each man yielding to thy temptation the doom upon thee shalt be prolonged by one hundred years, but for each one resisting thee, thou shalt be relieved of 1000 years of thy judgment.
Get thee away and continue thy evil doings.
"At a circus midway, the penniless and hungry Tramp  is mistaken for a pickpocket and chased by both the police and the real crook .
Running away, the Tramp stumbles into the middle of a performance and unknowingly becomes the hit of the show.
The ringmaster/proprietor of the struggling circus gives him a tryout the next day, but the Tramp fails miserably.
However, when the property men quit because they have not been paid, he gets hired on the spot to take their place.
Once again, he inadvertently creates comic mayhem during a show.
The ringmaster craftily hires him as a poorly paid property man.
The Tramp befriends Merna , a horse rider who is treated badly by her ringmaster stepfather.
She later informs the Tramp that he is the star of the show, forcing the ringmaster to pay him accordingly.
With the circus thriving because of him, the Tramp also is able to secure better treatment for Merna.
After overhearing a fortune teller inform Merna that she sees "love and marriage with a dark, handsome man who is near you now", the overjoyed Tramp buys a ring from another clown.
Alas for him, she meets Rex , the newly hired tightrope walker.
The Tramp eavesdrops as she rushes to tell the fortune teller that she has fallen in love with the new man.
With his heart broken, the Tramp is unable to entertain the crowds.
After several poor performances, the ringmaster warns him he has only one more chance.
When Rex cannot be found for a performance, the ringmaster  sends the Tramp out in his place.
Despite a few mishaps, including several mischievous escaped monkeys, he manages to survive the experience.
However, when he sees the ringmaster slapping Merna around afterward, he beats the man and is fired.
Merna runs away to join him.
The Tramp finds and brings Rex back with him to marry Merna.
The trio go back to the circus.
The ringmaster starts berating his stepdaughter, but stops when Rex informs him that she is his wife.
When the traveling circus leaves, the Tramp remains behind.
He picks himself up and starts walking jauntily away.Zara  is a gypsy rogue who joins with Confederate Zazarack  to aid Michael Nash , the crooked guardian of heiress Doris Merrick , to gain control of her estate by way of fake seances.Tim Kelly  and Max Ginsberg  have struck it rich by investing in copper stock.
But when the stock takes a dive, they are compelled to go back into their former profession — junk dealers.
They take in the destitute Mary Riley  as a boarder and she hits it off so well with them that she winds up becoming a partner in their rag & junk company.
Mary falls in love with a man named Nathan Burke , the son of wealthy parents.
Nathan's mother , however, disapproves of Mary.
Eventually it is revealed that Mrs. Burke came from a poor background herself, and her long-ago sweetheart was Max.
After this discovery, she gives the couple her blessings.
The copper stock soars in value once again, so Kelly and Ginsberg are back in the money.Old Clothes at silentera.comHandsome Williams  is a bootlegger who takes in the down-and-out Nora .
Nora eventually finds herself in the middle of a gang war between Williams and his chief rival, Tiger Louie .Heiress Betty  draws the ire of her father after using his airplane to fly to her boyfriend  on an ocean liner headed to France.
She has dinner alone when her boyfriend becomes seasick and is joined at her table by a mysterious man.
Betty receives a telegram from her father who disapprovingly warns her the boyfriend is a golddigger.
To prove her father wrong she asks the boyfriend to marry her.
A quarrel ensues and the two part company when the ship docks.
The boyfriend regrets the fight and goes to Betty to apologize.
He finds her entertaining guests, including the mysterious man.
Another quarrel between the two is interrupted by the arrival of Betty's father .
He tells Betty the family fortune, earned in the "champagne" business, has been wiped out in the stock market.
The boyfriend leaves after hearing the news of their fortune.
The father sees this as proof the boyfriend is only after money.
Betty decides to sell her jewelry but is robbed en route to the jewelers.
Now penniless Betty and her father move into a small shabby apartment.
Unbeknownst to Betty her father sneaks out to eat at an expensive restaurant after her cooking proves to be terrible.
Once again her boyfriend tries for a reconciliation but is rebuked by Betty, who now thinks her father is right about the boyfriend, vows to get a job.
Betty finds work at a swank restaurant.
Soon the mysterious man shows up and invites Betty to his table.
She becomes uncomfortable with the stranger and is relieved when her boyfriend once again arrives.
The mysterious man leaves after handing her a note that advises her to call him if she ever needs any help.
The boyfriend openly disapproves of Betty's job.
He leaves after a still angry Betty dances wildly to provoke him.
The boyfriend soon returns with Betty's father.
He is outraged at Betty's "unseemly" job and confesses he lied about the loss of their fortune to teach her a lesson.
Rather than being pleased, Betty is further angered by both the father and the boyfriend.
She turns to the mysterious man who offers to take Betty back to America.
Betty gladly accepts but is later horrified to find she has been locked in her cabin.
She imagines the worst about the mysterious man's intentions and is both relieved and delighted when her boyfriend arrives yet again and releases her from the cabin.
They soon reconcile.
The boyfriend hides in the bathroom when they hear the mysterious man approaching.
He enters with her father who confesses he hired the man to follow and protect her.
The boyfriend is furious and comes forth to attack the man.
Betty's father pacifies the boyfriend's anger by telling him he no longer disapproves of their wedding.
The reunited couple start discussing the wedding when once again another argument starts.Roy Lane and Billie Moore, entertainers at the Paradise Nightclub, are in love and are rehearsing an act together.
Late to work one evening, Billie is saved from dismissal by Nick Verdis, the club proprietor, through the intervention of Steve Crandall, a bootlegger, who desires a liaison with the girl.
"Scar" Edwards, robbed of a truckload of contraband liquor by Steve's gang, arrives at the club for a showdown with Steve and is shot in the back.
Steve gives Billie a bracelet to forget that she has seen him helping a "drunk" from the club.
Though Roy is arrested by Dan McCorn, he is later released on Billie's testimony.
Nick is murdered by Steve.
Billie witnesses the killing, but keeps quiet about the dirty business until she finds out Steve's next target is Roy.
Billie is determined to tell her story to the police before Roy winds up dead, but Steve isn't about to let that happen and kidnaps her.
Steve, in his car, is fired at from a taxi, and overheard by Pearl, he confesses to killing Edwards.
Pearl confronts Steve in Nick's office and kills him; and McCorn, finding Steve's body, insists that he committed suicide, exonerating Pearl and leaving Roy and Billie to the success of their act.Ralph Prescott  is a New York divorce lawyer tired of his clientele.
Woodbury , who runs a ladies hosiery business across the hall, suggests that they get away from the city and camp in Mantrap, Canada.
Bachelor Joe Easter  runs a dry-goods store in Mantrap.
Joe, wanting female company, goes to Minneapolis.
In a barbershop there, backwoods Joe meets flirtatious manicurist Alverna , who agrees to meet Joe for dinner.
Prescott and Woodbury fight while camping.
Joe separates them by taking Prescott back to Mantrap--where Prescott meets Alverna, now married to Joe and bored with backwoods life.
Alverna throws a party and flirts, especially with Prescott, who's attracted to her but honorable enough to leave the next day.
Alverna waits for Prescott's outbound canoe, stops him, and tells him that she's leaving with him.
Alverna insults their Native American guide, who takes the canoe, leaving Prescott and Alverna on their own in the woods.
They flag down a passing float plane, which lands in the lake.
Alverna flirts with the pilot, angering Prescott.
The pilot leaves them some food.
Joe tracks them and, after a few days, catches them.
Prescott tells Joe he'll marry Alverna if Joe grants a divorce; Joe counters by telling Prescott that Alverna will never stop flirting.
Alverna, shut out by the men who are planning her future, takes the canoe and leaves them both.
Prescott returns to his law practice, refreshed by his time in the woods.
Joe, lonely in his Mantrap store, defends Alverna to his prudish neighbors--and Alverna returns to Joe.Frumpy wife Beth devotes herself to bettering her husband's mind and expanding his appreciation for the finer things in life, such as classical music.
When he goes shopping at a lingerie store to buy some sexier clothes for her, he meets Sally, the shop girl.
Rejected by his wife for a night out on the town, he takes Sally, who douses him with her perfume.
When Beth smells another woman's perfume, she kicks him out and files for divorce.
Beth's Aunt Kate takes her shopping to get her mind off of her broken heart.
While in the dress shop, Beth overhears women gossiping about how her dull appearance led to her losing her husband.
She determines to "play their game" and gets a new "indecent" wardrobe.
Meanwhile the manipulative Sally convinces the dejected Robert to marry her.
He finds that his second wife annoys him as much as his previous one.
Later the couple and their dog end up at the same luxury hotel where divorcee Beth is strutting her stuff.
She tries to seduce Robert, but he resists.
Each of them quickly leaves the situation, but they meet again on a train.
As they're walking away from the station, Robert slips on a banana peel.
When the police arrive on the scene, Beth identifies Robert as her husband and takes him home.
Doctors say he is to be kept quiet for 24 hours.
The two women argue over whether Sally will move Robert against doctor's orders.
Beth locks the three of them into the bedroom, which leads to a physical struggle over the key during which Sally breaks a mirror, inviting seven years bad luck.
Beth threatens to burn Sally's face with acid, which leads to a stalemate.
The three stay in the room until Robert's crisis is over.
A doctor pronounces him healthy, but Robert refuses to go home with Sally.
Sally throws the vial of acid on Beth's face only to discover that Beth was bluffing; the vial contained only eye wash. Sally leaves but not before taking the cash from Robert's pants pockets and declaring that the best thing about marriage is alimony.
The final scenes show the remarried Robert and Beth in their home.
Beth dresses up in more revealing clothes and replaces the classical recording on her Victrola with a record of the fox trot.
Sally has taken up with a violin player.
The intertitle that ends the film reassures ladies that their husbands would prefer them as sweethearts, and reminds them to make sure they remember, from time to time, to "forget" being a wife.A young woman is heir to a large fortune, but the key to finding it is on the leg markings of a horse called "The Ghost of the Gauchos".
Unfortunately, the woman's uncle--her legal guardian--has his own plans for her fortune, and they don't include sharing it with her.
Sally  is an orphan who was named by the telephone exchange where she was abandoned as a baby.
In the orphanage, she discovered the joy of dancing.
Working as a waitress, she serves Blair , and they both fall for each other, but Blair is engaged to socialite Marcia.
Sally is hired to impersonate a famous Russian dancer named Noskerova, but at that engagement, she is found to be a phoney.
Undaunted, she proceeds with her life and has a show on Broadway, but she still thinks of Blair.A young man  has a series of encounters in an amusement area, much like Coney Island, until happening upon a group of men preparing a hot air balloon for launch.
The young man assists the group by climbing atop the balloon to afix a pennant, when the balloon mistakenly takes flight with no one aboard but the young man.
The young man finally downs the balloon in a wilderness area, where he encounters a young outdoorswoman and proceeds to have a series of misadventures.The plot revolves around the gang swapping places with a group of runaway boys who are supposed to be taken by train back to San Francisco.
This plot is repeated in the 1932 short, Choo-Choo!.
While aboard the train, the gang wreaks havoc for the other passengers.
Jackie Condon rescues his dog, T-Bone, from the baggage compartment and this causes considerable disturbance with the conductor.
He later changes clothes with a little girl, played by Mary Kornman, and they both get spankings by the adults.
A traveling salesman volunteers to entertain the children with his noisemakers and fireworks.
The gang then parade up and down the train with whistles and kazoos.
They set off the fireworks, release sneezing powder , pass around other practical jokes and mayhem results.
When they finally arrive at San Francisco, the child care worker receives a telegram informing him that he has the wrong children and must take them back.The film focuses on the 'Plain Clothes Men', a group of detectives dressed up as average citizens to catch criminals without being noticed.
They are especially hated by the underworld due to their constant meeting, during which suspects are analyzed and interrogated extendedly.
Among the staff is Dan Coghlan , a police officer with flat feet and a tough disposition, who is unsatisfied with the lack of adventure.
As he is about to quit his job, he is noticed about a croaked jeweler.
When arriving there, he finds Skeeter Carlson , a crook who never gets busted for a crime due to a lack of evidence.
Dan decides to follow him, and after talking to Skeeter's low-life girlfriend Bessie  without gaining any information, he prevents Skeeter from seducing Myrtle Sullivan , an innocent flapper who finds excitement in hanging out with crooks.
Dan has lately assigned himself as Myrtle's care-taker, and he disapproves of her boyfriend Marty , a dapper gangster without a job.
When Skeeter is out of town for two days, Dan graps this opportunity to manipulate Bessie.
After convincing her that Skeeter will soon dump her for Myrtle, Bessie admits that he croaked the jeweler.
Without wasting any time, Dan sets out to bust Skeeter and his men, only to find out that one of them is Marty.
Shortly after, Bessie's body is found, and Dan is convinced that Skeeter is responsible for her death, considering that she was going to testify against him.
The case against Skeeter is dismissed by the court, and he immediately reveals his plans on murdering Marty.
Dan overhears this conversation, and hurries to Marty for protection, only to catch him in the midst of a robbery.
Even though he is able to turn him in, Dan orders the police to leave Marty alone and helps him to take his first, tentative steps on the straight path.
Before leaving town, Marty wants to meet Myrtle one more time and sends her a letter, but Skeeter reads it before she can.
He forces himself up to her, but is disturbed by police raid.
Before they open the door, Skeeter fires a shot through it - which croaks a cop - and gets away.
Upon finding out that she will testify against him, Skeeter sets out to kill her.
Meanwhile, Dan tells Myrtle against better judgment that he loves her and then proposes to her.
Even though she is actually in love with Marty, Myrtle accepts, mostly out of gratitude for all that Dan has done for her.
Afterwards, Dan leaves to find Skeeter, and catches him and his men preparing for a get-away.
It results into a giant shootout, during which several policemen and gangsters are killed.
Skeeter's men give in after being attacked by tear bombs, but Skeeter finds a way to escape to the rooftop.
Dan follows him there, and after another shootout, Skeeter is killed.
Meanwhile, Marty returns to town in rage after finding out about Dan and Myrtle's engagement.
He proposes to Myrtle, but she decides to stay loyal to Dan.
Dan realizes that she loves Marty, and allows them to be together.Two sailor buddies have their friendship torn apart after the woman they both are in love with chooses one over the other.
Their relationship gets re-evaluated when one of them becomes trapped in a submarine and the other gets sent on the rescue mission.Wheezer is jealous of his baby brother, who gets all the attention from his family while Wheezer is ignored and expected to behave like a "big boy".
After a failed attempt at making his own breakfast , Wheezer attempts to run away from home with Pete the Pup.
After he happens upon Farina, they both find themselves on the receiving end of Halloween pranks from the gang in their costumes.
Farina tells Wheezer a tall tale about trading in an unwanted baby sibling for a goat and inspires Wheezer to try the same.
However, when Wheezer arrives at the hospital with the baby carriage  in order to "change the baby for a goat," a nurse plays along, but also calls Wheezer's mother and informs her of what he's done.
Wheezer's mother and his sister Mary Ann pretend to be distraught over the baby's disappearance.
After seeing his mother crying, a remorseful Wheezer rushes back to the hospital to retrieve his brother, but the nurse informs him that it's too late.
Wheezer returns home alone, and his mother tells him to pray for the baby to return.
Wheezer, gets on his knees and begins praying, only for the baby to come out of hiding and bop Wheezer on the head.Doug Caswell  falls for Irene Gordon .
Irene happens to be the mistress of his wealthy father, John Caswell , and it's up to Doug's stepmother, Helen  to put things right.The story takes place in old Mexico, where a masked rider  and an impoverished girl  fall in love, against her father's wishes.
When she leaves with him, her father sends his gang in a chase after the two lovers.Sam Bisbee  is a small-town glazier who's always trying to get rich quick, and his schemes are driving his wife  crazy.
When he invents an unbreakable glass windshield, his attempt to demonstrate it at a convention of automobile manufacturers is ruined when his car gets switched with another, and instead of bouncing off,the brick he throws at it smashes the windshield to pieces.
On the train ride home, Bisbee considers suicide, but instead rescues a pretty young woman  who he believe is trying to kill herself.
It turns out the woman is really Princess Lescaboura, and their friendship bring social success to the Bisbees.Erickson, Hal OverviewStephan, Ed Plot summaryTCM Full synopsisDangerous Diana Medford  is outwardly flamboyant and popular but inwardly virtuous and idealistic, patronizing her parents  by telling them not to stay out late.
Her friend Ann  chases boys for their money and is as amoral as her mother .
Diana and Ann are both attracted to Ben Blaine .
He takes Diana's flirtatious behavior with other boys as a sign of uninterest in him and marries Ann.
Diana becomes distraught for a while.
Later, Diana throws a party which Ann hopes to attend with her lover, Freddie .
She gets into an argument with her husband about the party but attends anyway; Ben attends behind Ann's back.
Ben and Diana realize their love for each other, and, when Ann falls to her death due to drunkenness, the two are free to unite.
Others in the cast include Nils Asther as Norman, Dorothy Sebastian as Beatrice, and Evelyn Hall and Sam De Grasse as Freddie's parents.Set during the Prohibition Era, Wine exposes the widespread liquor traffic in the upper-classes.
Bow portraits an innocent girl who develops into a "wild redhot mama".Galveston Daily News, October 20, 1924The movie is about two kings vying for the love of a hermit's daughter, the beautiful Sunita.
The two kings, Ranjit and Sohan share a passion for gambling and decide to play a game of craps to determine who will marry Sunita.
Sunita wishes to marry Ranjit.
Ranjit loses the game to the nefarious Sohan and as a forfeit becomes his slave.
Sunita soon uncovers the truth about Sohan's evil deeds and to escape punishment he hurls himself off a cliff into the rapids below.
Ranjit and Sunita are reunited and married.The film opens with a foreword: There are important fragments of life that have been avoided by the motion picture because Thought is concerned and not the Body.
A thought can create and destroy nations&mdash;and it is all the more powerful because it is born of suffering, lives in silence, and dies when it has done its work.
Our aim has been to photograph a thought&mdash;A thought that guides humans who crawl close to the earth&mdash;whose lives are simple&mdash;who begin nowhere and end nowhere.
The &#34;humans who crawl close to the earth&#34; are then introduced one by one.
The Boy is a homeless, unemployed youth who fancies The Girl.
He is a failure, the intertitles explain, because he believes in failure.
According to The Boy, there are two types of people in the world—the poor, helpless &#34;children of the mud&#34; and the rich, successful &#34;children of the sun&#34;—and he places himself somewhere in the middle.
The Boy and The Girl live near a harbor and struggle to find food; eventually, they have to leave for the city: not only The Boy is unable to find a job, but also The Brute has been harassing The Girl, and The Boy is afraid of a direct confrontation.
They leave, taking with them The Child, an orphan who lost his parents to an accident and was also a victim of The Brute.
In the city The Girl catches the attention of The Gentleman.
He offers the three protagonists lodgings and promises to find a job for The Boy.
His real plan is, however, to not help The Boy and wait until The Girl has no other choice but to offer herself to him in exchange for money.
The Boy does fail in his job search, but The Girl is reluctant to become a prostitute; at some point, The Gentleman decides to take the whole company to the country to &#34;let romance do a little work.&#34; He does that, but when he tries to seduce The Girl, The Boy finally finds courage to stand up for her.
The Boy beats The Gentleman up and leaves together with The Girl and The Child; the intertitles proclaim that now that The Boy is no longer afraid and believes in himself, he belongs to the children of the sun: It isn't conditions, nor is it environment&mdash;our faith controls our lives!
The film ends with The Boy, The Girl and The Child walking towards the sunset.May  is married to Roger, an alcoholic hell-raiser .
During one of their riotous parties, she tests his fidelity by impersonating a notorious masked dancer  and trying to seduce him.At the beginning of the story, Ahab  and his half brother Derek ([[George O'Hara  compete for the affections of a winsome minister's daughter, Esther Wiscasset .
Meanwhile, the albino whale has been eluding harpooners, and bears the scars of many failed attacks against him.
His fame has reached epic proportions.
One day, Ahab and Derek are on the same whaler as the whale heaves into view.
Ahab raises his harpoon to kill the beast, but at that moment, Derek pushes him overboard and Ahab loses a right leg to the whale.
Not long after this incident, the shallow Esther rebuffs Ahab as her suitor once she catches sight of his peg leg.
Heartbroken at this turn of events, Ahab blames neither Esther nor his brother - instead he transfers blame and an undying hatred onto the whale.
The following saga of Ahab's pursuit of the whale takes on the aura of a super-human quest, far beyond the proportions of its first motivation.Nina Duane  is a criminal lawyer whose gender was professionally resented by Philip Barry , the District Attorney.
She wins acquittal for man-chasing widow Mary Booth , then defeats her in romancing the D.A.George ([[George O'Brien  is a sailor and smooth-talking lady's man who believes in the adage "love 'em and leave 'em" when it comes to women.
While on leave in Morocco, George meets Lorette , a fiery French dancing girl who falls madly in love with him, unaware that he has a girl in every port.
Initially thinking of her as just another diversion, George soon discovers that he can't get rid of the girl.
Later, she follows him to the United States, but does his best to avoid her.
Amused by George's predicament and feeling sorry for the girl, his two best friends, Tom  and Jerry , shanghai him aboard a vessel and arrange things so that George is unable to avoid Lorette.
As a result, the hero surrenders to the inevitable and marries the girl.The opening has the dashing Earl of Huntingdon besting his bitter enemy, Sir Guy of Gisbourne, in a joust.
Huntingdon then joins King Richard the Lion-Hearted, who is going off to fight in the Crusades and has left his brother, Prince John, as regent.
The prince soon emerges as a cruel, treacherous tyrant.
Goaded on by Sir Guy, he usurps Richard's throne.
When Huntingdon receives a message from his paramour, Lady Marian Fitzwalter, telling him of all that has transpired, he requests permission to return to England.
King Richard assumes that the Earl has turned coward and denies him permission.
The Earl seeks to leave in spite of this, but is ambushed by Sir Guy and imprisoned as a deserter.
Upon escaping from his confines, he returns to England, endangering his life and honor, to oppose Prince John and restore King Richard's throne.
He finds himself, and his friends, outlawed, and Marian apparently dead.
Huntingdon returns to Nottingham and adopts the name of Robin Hood, acrobatic champion of the oppressed.
Leading a band that steals from the rich to give to the poor, including Friar Tuck, Little John, Will Scarlet, and Alan-a-Dale, he labors to set things right through swashbuckling feats and makes life miserable for Prince John and his cohort, the High Sheriff of Nottingham.
After rescuing Marian from Prince John's prison and defeating Sir Guy in a final conflict, Robin is captured.
The timely reappearance of King Richard returns him to Marian and foils the efforts of Prince John.To the Viscountess of Noailles.
I dedicate these pictures which can never reveal the extent of her kindness and charm.
How two travellers arrived in St. Bernard, what they saw in the ruins of an old castle on top of which a modern-time castle stands.
The travellers: MAN RAY, J.-A.
Boiffard.
The film opens from a night scene to two masked individuals at a cafe.
They decide their actions on the role of dice.
A throw of dice will never abolish chance.
The hands are that of mannequins, their faces devoid of detail.
Before the throw, their destination appears on a hillside in the form of both modern and ancient castles.
Are we going?
We're not going We're going!
And their journey begins.
Departing from their cafe, they travel through the French countryside arriving a the town of Hyères and their destination to find the modern castle empty.
Elements of the interior explore various spatial relationships and textures.
The film shows sculptures by Pablo Picasso and Joan Miró, as well as exploring the unique Cubist garden at Villa Noailles.
After a while, we are introduced to four intruders who are in turn resigning their fate to that of the dice.
Upon their throw, they depart for the indoor swimming pool at the villa and entertain the viewer with various diving and gymnastic movements, including a woman juggling underwater and exercising with medicine balls.
Actors explore the villas confines, until they eventually retire, fading from the screen.
More moving shots of the villas external until two more travellers arrive at the location, again playing for chance within the garden.
They proceed to stay overnight, bringing the film to an abrupt end.The film focuses on an all-girl college where the students are more interested in having fun and partying than studying.
Stella Ames  is the most popular student, with a loud mouth.
When the young and attractive professor Gilmore starts working there in anthropology, all the girls immediately feel attracted to him.
Stella recognizes him as the man she once accidentally shared a bed with, thereby risking her reputation.
The professor is unamused by the girls' bad behavior and does not seem to notice who Stella is.
At the end of term, a traditional costume party is held.
Stella and her friends show up in revealing costumes and are therefore thrown out by Faith Morgan , the head of the student body.
The girls decide to go to a bar, where they are soon bothered by drunk men.
They try to leave, but the men refuse to let them go.
A bar fight soon ensues.
All the girls are able to get away and leave with the car, but Stella is left behind.
Fearing the worst, she decides to play along with the men so they will not force themselves on her.
She is eventually rescued by professor Gilmore 'Gil' , who beats up the men.
While taking her home, she tries to show her gratitude, but he is not moved by her, pointing out her scandalous lifestyle and lack of ambition.
Hurt, she starts crying, but Gil states that he still would kill for her and kisses her.
Eva catches them and soon spreads the word, but Stella threatens to ruin her life if she continues to.
Stella denies the whole story, but admits to her best friend Helen  that she loves him.
However, the next morning he acts as if nothing has happened, even giving her a hard time for committing plagiarism.
Upset, she returns to her old lifestyle of wild parties, which includes dancing with and kissing strangers.
However, when information reaches her that Gil has been shot, she realizes that she is still in love with him.
A month later, Gil returns to college.
Stella visits him, and he explains to her that he hates her for what she is and loves her for what she could be.
They kiss, but are interrupted by Eva .
Gil acts as if nobody else is there, but Eva notices Stella's presence.
After she leaves, they enjoy a romantic evening until a fire drill interrupts them.
While reporting to the dean, Helen loses a letter she has written to George, a man she is secretly seeing, despite the fact that it is prohibited for students to date.
It turns out that Eva has found the letter and threatens to reveal both Helen and Stella's admirers.
She later admits to their friend Babs that she has given the letter to Faith Morgan.
Stella later tries to protect Helen and takes the blame, claiming that it was she who wrote the letter.
She prepares to leave college, but Gil follows her on the train and they are reunited.
He tells her that he does not believe her claim that she wrote the letter and announces that he has left college too.The gang are all orphans, hoping to be adopted by nice families where "spinach is not on the menu".
Wheezer, the youngest child, gets adopted by a wealthy couple, while his older sister Mary Ann does not.
The gang all comes to visit Wheezer in his new home, setting off an alarm that causes the police and the fire department to come over.
At that time, Wheezer's new mother and father decide to adopt Mary Ann as well.
The couple's friends all each adopt a child as well; even Farina is adopted by the maid at Wheezer's new home.
Little Annie Rooney  is a tough girl from the streets with her own gang.
She spends her days wreaking havoc around the streets.
She looks up to her older brother, who is into a more violent gang himself.
Annie develops a crush on a gang member Joe.
Despite being a troublemaking tomboy, her father Timothy Rooney ([[Walter James  serves as the officer of the neighbourhood.
Officer Rooney is a well-respected man of the town.
This is why everybody is in shock when an unknown person shoots him.
The culprits mislead Annie's brother into thinking Joe Kelly  is the shooter.
Annie is now unsure whom to believe.Ollie and his wife are enjoying a quiet Sunday at home until Stan shows up, eager to play some golf.
After Stan breaks the Hardys' Victrola and nearly sets fire to their house, Mrs. Hardy chases the boys out.
At the golf course, they are partnered with a pair of comely young lasses to complete a foursome.
The girls want to be treated to sodas, but the boys are short of money.
Stan leaves his watch to settle the thirty-cent bill.
On the course, they tangle with rude golfer Edgar Kennedy, and wind up in a mud-throwing battle with several other linksters.Molly Burns  is a young woman whose indiscreet behavior causes her to be caught and jailed in a police "round up" of suspicious characters.
Her prison experience causes her to reflect upon and reform her own life.
She convinces jail authorities that her two brothers and her boyfriend could be dissuaded from a life of crime.
After her early release, she attempts to reform her indiscreet friends.Beautiful Russian spy Sonja Baranikowa  seduces Colonel Jellusic  into betraying his country for her employer, Haghi , a seemingly respectable bank director who is actually the criminal mastermind of a powerful espionage organization.
Jason , head of the Secret Service, gives the task of bringing the mysterious Haghi down to a handsome young agent known only as Number 326.
326 believes his identity is a secret, but Haghi is well aware of him.
He assigns Sonja to worm her way into 326's confidence.
She convinces 326 that she has just shot a man who tried to force himself on her.
He hides her from the police.
What Haghi does not anticipate is that the couple will fall in love.
Unwilling to betray 326, she quietly slips away after they spend the afternoon and evening together.
He trails her to Colonel Jellusic, whom he mistakes for her lover .
Haghi suspects Sonya's feelings for 326.
When she refuses to act against 326, he confines her to a room in his secret headquarters.
Meanwhile, Haghi is after a crucial, secret Japanese treaty.
He blackmails Lady Leslane , an opium addict, into betraying what her husband knows of the negotiations.
Akira Masimoto , the Japanese head of security responsible for the treaty's safekeeping, crosses paths with 326.
When 326 seeks out Sonya, he finds her apartment stripped bare.
Masimoto finds him drowning his sorrows in a bar and informs him that he would have arrested the woman as a spy had she not disappeared.
Masimoto gives each of three couriers a sealed packet to deliver to Tokyo; he informs them that a copy of the treaty is inside one of them.
Haghi obtains all three packages, but finds only newspapers.
However, Haghi has one more card up his sleeve.
Masimoto pities Kitty , a young woman he finds huddling in a doorway during a rainstorm, and takes her in.
When he prepares to leave for Japan with the treaty, she begs him to spend a few hours with her.
He gives in, attracted by her beauty.
However, when he wakes up later, she is gone, as is the treaty.
Disgraced, he commits ritual suicide.
326 tracks Jellusic down, but too late.
To tie up loose ends, Haghi has already betrayed the colonel.
When confronted by his superiors, Jellusic shoots himself to avoid a scandal.
326 wires the serial numbers of the bank notes used to pay Jellusic, which Jason passes on to agent 719, working undercover as a circus clown, to trace.
On the train trip back, 326 is nearly killed in a trap set by Haghi.
While he is sleeping, his car is detached and left in a tunnel.
He awakens just before another train smashes into it.
Sonya, tricked into trying to smuggle the treaty out of the country by Haghi's promise not to harm 326, learns of the crash, races to the site and is reunited with her love.
326 orders Haghi's bank surrounded.
Then he sends Sonya away with his trusted chauffeur, Franz , while he and his men search for Haghi.
However, Haghi captures Sonya and Franz, and sends 326 an ultimatum: clear the building within 15 minutes or Sonya will die.
After agonizing, 326 continues searching, even after poison gas is released.
Fortunately, Franz is able to free himself and hold off Haghi's assassins until 326 can find them.
Haghi's minions are captured, but there is no sign of the mastermind.
Later, a clerk complains to 326 and Jason that the serial numbers he was given to trace do not match the actual bank notes.
The two realize that 719 must be none other than Haghi himself.
When Haghi goes on stage to perform his clown act, he sees that he is surrounded by agents.
He shoots himself in the head.
The audience, believing it is all just part of his act, applauds.Grace Goodright , is the wife Warren Goodright , an American playwright living in Paris.
Grace is living beyond her means and owes dressmaker Renee Malot  money.
Malot suggests that Grace contact American army officer Captain Rex Strong  who might be able to assist her financially.
Rex offers Grace a loan, but only if she grants him sexual favors.
Grace refuses, and Malot, angered at losing an opportunity for money, attempts unsuccessfully to blackmail Grace.In 1924, "Skeet" Burns applies to join the United States Marine Corps, but only to get a free train ride to San Diego, California.
When he arrives, he escapes from veteran Marine Sergeant O'Hara and boards another train to "Tia Juana", Mexico for the horse races.
However, upon his return, he enlists after all and comes under O'Hara's charge.
At the base, Skeet spots Norma Dale, an attractive Navy nurse.
He tries to become better acquainted with her, but his unsubtle, overconfident approach meets with a cold reception.
He also discovers that O'Hara is smitten with Norma as well.
It becomes clear to O'Hara that Norma does like Skeet when she asks him to take Skeet along on a sea training cruise despite his unsatisfactory performance and attitude.
She finds he has already done so.
On board ship, Skeet picks a fight with a "gob", a sailor, unaware that his intended victim is actually the Navy heavyweight champion.
O'Hara and his men are assigned to Tondo Island, a dreary naval station described as being "six miles this side of Hell".
There, he is tempted by Zaya, a pretty native who is attracted to him.
Before things get too serious however, he changes his mind.
When she tries to hold onto him, he has to untangle himself from her.
This results in a brawl with the outraged locals in which O'Hara has to rescue Skeet.
Hearing unflattering gossip about the affair, Norma writes Skeet a letter breaking off their relationship.
Skeet mistakenly believes O'Hara told her about the incident in order to improve his own romantic chances with Norma.
The Marines are relieved and are sent to join the Asiatic Squadron, stationed at Shanghai, China.
O'Hara and Skeet find Norma there; she greets the sergeant warmly, but refuses to give Skeet a second chance.
She and other nurses are then sent to Hangchow to deal with an epidemic.
When news arrives that a bandit army is threatening the city, the Marines are ordered to the rescue.
During the tense evacuation, O'Hara and his men are chosen to be the rear guard at a bridge.
Fierce fighting breaks out.
When O'Hara is wounded, he orders Skeet to rejoin the column, but Skeet refuses to obey.
The detachment is saved by the timely arrival of an aerial squadron.
After his four year enlistment ends, Skeet and Norma buy a ranch, in which Skeet offers O'Hara a partnership.
However, the old veteran declines, saying that he and the Marine Corps are made for each other.The plot concerns a young couple who have made a marriage vow with each other.
Their marriage is thwarted when the woman is forced to marry a rich gangster.
A fighter for justice called "Field Mouse" stops the wedding, killing the gangsters, and returns the bride to her betrothed.Set in the year 2026, Metropolis takes place in a dystopian society where wealthy intellectuals rule from vast tower complexes, oppressing the workers who live in the depths below them.
The film follows Freder , the son of the master of the city, Joh Fredersen .
While idling away his leisure time in a pleasure garden, Freder encounters a young woman named Maria  who has brought a group of worker’s children to see the privileged lifestyle led by the rich.
Maria and the children are quickly ushered away, but Freder is fascinated by Maria and descends to the worker’s city in an attempt to find her.
Freder finds the worker’s city and watches in horror as a huge machine explodes, injuring many.
Appalled by what he has witnessed, Freder runs to tell his father.
Joh is angered that he learned of the explosion from Freder rather than his assistant Josaphat , and fires Josaphat as a result.
When Freder berates his father for this, Joh is unsympathetic to Josephat or the Workers.
Josaphat attempts to commit suicide over his dismissal, but is stopped by Freder.
Freder tells Josaphat to return to his apartment and wait for him there, leaving to return to the workers' city.
Concerned by his son’s behaviour, Joh sends The Thin Man  to keep track of his movements.
In the worker’s city, Freder sees a worker named Georgy  close to collapsing at his post.
Freder relieves him, swapping clothes with Georgy and telling him to go to Josaphat’s apartment and wait for him there.
Georgy is driven away by Freder’s chauffeur, but on his way to Josaphat’s apartment he is distracted by the bright-lights of the licentious night-club Yoshiwara.
Back in the worker’s city, Freder finds a plan folded tightly in his pocket and is told of an approaching meeting by a passerby.
Meanwhile, Joh has learned of mysterious plans being shared amongst the workers.
He takes the plans to Rotwang , a scientist and old collaborator who informs him the plans show the underground tunnels that lie beneath the worker’s city.
Rotwang was in love with Joh’s deceased wife Hel, and – to Joh’s horror — reveals that he has been building a robot in order to ‘resurrect’ her.
Rotwang discovers the plans are a map of the ancient catacombs beneath the city, and he and Joh leave to investigate.
Freder, after suffering hallucinations brought on by exhaustion, follows the workers down into the catacombs, where Maria is waiting to speak to them.
In the catacombs, Maria prophesies the arrival of a mediator between the workers and the rulers.
Freder watches her transfixed, and once she has finished speaking approaches her and declares his love.
They arrange to meet later in a cathedral, and part.
Joh and Rotwang watch the entire scene unfold, and plot to kidnap Maria, give the robot her appearance and use it to discredit her.
Joh is pleased with the plan, unaware that Rotwang intends to use the false Maria to destroy his son.
Rotwang follows Maria through the catacombs, and kidnaps her.
After leaving Yoshiwara the next morning, Georgy finds The Thin Man waiting for him in his car.
The Thin Man orders Georgy to return to his post and forget everything that occurred, taking Josaphat’s address from him.
Meanwhile Freder goes to Josaphat’s apartment, and asks for Georgy.
Josaphat tells Freder that Georgy has not arrived.
Freder tells Josaphat of his experiences in the worker’s city, before departing to meet Maria.
The Thin Man arrives at Josaphat’s apartment just after Freder’s departure, and attempts to intimidate him into leaving Metropolis.
The two fight, and Josaphat manages to escape and hide in the worker’s city.
When Maria does not arrive at the cathedral, Freder goes in search of her.
He hears her cries as he approaches Rotwang’s house, and makes futile attempts to reach her.
In his laboratory Rotwang successfully transforms the robot into Maria’s double, and sends it to greet Joh.
Freder returns to his father, and sees him and the false Maria embracing.
He faints, and experiences a series of nightmarish visions.
The false Maria begins to unleash chaos throughout Metropolis, driving men to murder out of lust for her in Yoshiwara and stirring dissent amongst the workers.
Meanwhile, the real Maria manages to flee from Rotwang’s house as Rotwang and Fredersen duel after Fredersen becomes aware of Rotwang's treachery.
When Freder recovers ten days later, he finds out from Josaphat that the Robot, whom they believe is Maria, is raising havoc.
The pair venture down to Maria's altar, where the robot is urging the workers to rise up and revolt.
Freder calls the robot out, knowing that Maria would never preach war, but is recognized as Joh Frederson's son and is attacked by the mob.
In the chaos, Georgy is stabbed trying to protect Freder.
Joh has ordered that the workers are allowed to rampage, in order to justify the use of heavy force against them at a later stage.
The robot leads the workers from the city, who unknowingly leave their children behind, and they surge into the machine halls, abandoning their posts and destroying the Heart Machine, the central power Station of the city, which causes all the city's systems to fail.
With no power for the pumps, the subterranean workers' city begins to flood.
Maria finds the children trying to escape the flood and attempts to save as many as she can from the water, sounding the city's alarm to gather them in one spot.
She is soon joined by Freder and Josaphat, who help her rescue the children and escape to the upper levels of the city via an escape ladder.
They manage to evacuate the children just as the workers' city begins to collapse.
As the workers revel in the Machine halls, Grot, foreman of the Heart Machine, manages to suppress the out-of-control crowd, and berates them for their behavior and actions.
Realizing their children have been left behind in the flooded workers' city, the workers are driven mad by grief.
Considering Maria the cause of their misery, they launch a witch hunt, capture the false Maria, who had been reveling with the city's rich, and tie her to a stake.
Having been separated from the real Maria, Freder watches as the false Maria is set afire and gradually transforms back into her robot form.
A delusional Rotwang finds the real Maria hiding from the mob in the cathedral, and, mistaking her for Hel, gives chase.
Rotwang and Maria end up on the roof of the cathedral, and are seen by Freder from the ground.
Freder climbs up to the roof of the cathedral and confronts Rotwang; the two fight, and Rotwang eventually loses his balance and falls to his death.
The film ends with Freder declaring a truce between the workers and the thinkers, and linking the hands of his father and Grot , becoming the Mediator between head and hands.Arundel is an ambitious professor who is working on a book on the evolution of the female.
He does this at the expense of neglecting his beautiful wife Rose.
Rose is fed up with the lack of attention and being only an object.
She does not know how to get through to him however.
One day she meets an old flame Lt Robert Carey.
She had thought their passion was over but it is reignited.
They renew their friendship and spent all their time together.
Though a friend of her husband Godowski tries to seduce Rose, he does not succeed as Rose has only eye for Carey.
Godowski eventually realises this.
Six years pass by and Carey has been out of Rose’s life for some time but upon his return he tries to contact Rose.
Rose has been fulfilling her role as the mother of five year old Dora.
The professor has drastically changed in this time and he has given up his career, vesting all his attention on his wife and daughter.
As Rose meets Carey again, she admits that her heart belongs to him and she admits that Carey is the father of the child.
Carey demands that Rose leaves her husband but Rose does not dare to do this.
Carey writes her a letter threatening to leave for India if she does not leave her husband.
Being desperate, she loses the letter which Godowski later finds and uses to blackmail Rose.
Rose tells Carey that it is best if he leaves for India.
Carey who is unable to accept this news decides to end his life.
As Rose hears this, she collapse.
She tells the truth to her husband who is furious and leaves her.
Both their lives are for a time one of loneliness but they are reunited when Doris falls seriously ill.Six friends are to graduate the next day from the United States Naval Academy.
They all hope to become aviators.
When the officer of the day becomes sick, Tommy Winslow  has to take his place, while the others go out and celebrate.
Two return loudly drunk after curfew.
Tommy is able to shut Steve  up , but "Dizzy" is not so lucky.
An officer hears him and has him dismissed from the Academy.
The rest spend a year in the fleet, then reunite in San Diego for aviation training.
Upon their arrival, they become acquainted with the beautiful Anita Hastings .
Tommy and Steve become rivals for her affections.
Specs is rejected for training because of his bad eyesight.
The remaining four then head to training school in Pensacola, Florida.
Kewpie panics on his first flight, forcing his instructor to knock him out to regain control of their trainer biplane, while "Tex" loses control during his first solo flight and crashes into the sea.
Tommy and Steve pass and are promoted to lieutenant.
Upon their return to San Diego, they are reunited with Specs, now an aerial navigator, and Kewpie, the radio officer of the USS Langley, the Navy's first aircraft carrier.
The romantic rivalry between Tommy and Steve takes an ugly turn when it becomes apparent that Anita prefers Tommy.
Steve resorts to underhanded tricks, straining his friendship with Tommy.
In retaliation for Steve hiding his uniform pants during a swimming outing with Anita, Tommy buzzes Steve on the airfield after a mock aerial dogfight he has won.
The admiral is greatly displeased, and deprives Tommy of the honor of piloting a pioneering {{convert}} flight to Honolulu, awarding it to Steve instead.
Steve takes off, with Specs as his navigator.
However, they run into a severe storm and crash into the ocean before the radio operator can report their position.
All four of the crew survive and make it to the floating aircraft wing, but Specs is badly injured.
The admiral, following in the Langley, immediately orders an all-out aerial search.
As the days go by, Steve and the others save the little fresh water for Specs, despite his protests; finally, while the others are asleep, Specs drags himself into the water and drowns himself.
Meanwhile, the admiral is ordered to give up his fruitless search.
Tommy pleads with him for one last attempt, and the admiral agrees.
Tommy finally spots the survivors, but his engine conks out.
He sets his aircraft on fire as a signal to the Langley and parachutes into the water.
When they return to San Diego, Anita is waiting for him.Two convicts dig a tunnel to escape from prison, but end up in the warden's office, after making a detour around a burst water pipe.
They then disguise themselves as painters and walk out through the front gates.
They later climb into a limousine carrying two visiting French police chiefs, steal their suits and throw the two men out of the car.
The two convicts, now disguised as dignitaries, are then driven back to the prison to have dinner with the warden.
Later, while visiting the cells, they are recognised and marched back to their own cell.Young David Kinemon, son of West Virginia tenant farmers, longs to be treated like a man by his family and neighbors, especially Esther Hatburn, the pretty girl who lives with her grandfather on a nearby farm.
However, he is continually reminded that he is still a boy, "tol'able" enough, but no man.
He eventually gets a chance to prove himself when outlaw Iscah Hatburn and his sons Luke and "Little Buzzard," distant cousins of the Kinemon's Hatburn neighbors, move into the Hatburn farm, against the will of Esther and her grandfather.
Esther initially tells David not to interfere, saying he's no match for her cousins.
Later, the cousins kill David's pet dog and cripple his older brother while the latter is delivering mail and taking passengers to town in his "hack" wagon.
David's father sets out to administer vigilante justice on the Hatburn cousins , but has a heart attack.
David is determined to go after the Hatburns in his father's place, but his mother talks him out of it, arguing that with his father dead and brother crippled, the household, including his brother's wife and infant son, depends on him.
The family is then turned out of the farm and are forced to move into a small house in town.
David asks for his brother's old job of driving the hack but is told he is too young.
He does find work at the general store though.
Later, when the hack's regular driver is fired for drunkenness, David finally has a chance to drive the hack.
He loses the mailbag near the Hatburn farm, where it is found by Luke.
David goes to the Hatburn farm to demand the mailbag.
He is refused and gets into an argument with the cousins, during which he is shot in the arm.
David then shoots Iscah and the younger son and later, after a prolonged fight with the older brother , emerges victorious.
Esther flees for help and makes it to the village, telling that David has been killed.
As a crowd prepares to go look for David, he although injured, arrives in the hack with the bag of mail.
It is clear to all that David, no longer merely "tol'able," is a real man and a hero.With unpaid actors and staff, the stage show Phantom Sweetheart seems doomed.
To complicate matters, the box office takings have been robbed and the leading lady refuses to appear.
Can the show be saved?Buster plays a farmhand who competes with Joe Roberts to win the love of the farmer's daughter .
Running from a dog , Buster falls into a hay thresher and ruins his clothes.
Forced to borrow the clothes of a nearby scarecrow, Sybil believes Buster to be proposing as she stumbles upon him tying his shoe.
The couple speed off on a motorcycle with Joe and the farmer  in hot pursuit.
Scooping up a minister during the chase, they are married on the speeding motorcycle and splash into a stream at the climax of the ceremony and the film.Buster plays a down on his luck young man who decides to commit suicide after losing his job and his girl.
After several inept attempts to end his life - and bolstered by whiskey disguised as poison - he joins an expedition to capture an armadillo.
Buster finds himself becoming more confident through a series of adventures  as the film proceeds.
The confidence becomes his undoing as he misses the pool in a dive from a high board and hits the ground on the far side with such force that he disappears into a hole.
Some years later, an Asian-garbed Buster climbs out of the hole in the now dry and deserted pool followed by a Chinese wife and two young children.Thymian Henning , the innocent, naive daughter of pharmacist Robert Henning , is puzzled when their housekeeper, Elisabeth , leaves suddenly on the day of Thymian's confirmation.
It turns out that her father got Elisabeth pregnant.
Elisabeth's body is brought to the pharmacy later that day, an apparent suicide by drowning, upsetting Thymian.
Thymian's father's assistant Meinert , promises to explain it all to her late that night, but instead takes advantage of her; she gives birth to an illegitimate child.
{{Cite book}} Though Thymian refuses to name the baby's father, the relatives find out from her diary.
They decide that the best solution is for her to marry Meinert.
When she refuses because she does not love him, they give the baby to a midwife and send her to a strict reformatory for wayward girls run by a tyrannical woman  and her tall, bald assistant .
Meanwhile, Thymian's friend, Count Osdorff , is cast off and left penniless by his rich uncle, also Count Osdorff , after he proves unsuccessful at every school and trade.
Thymian begs her friend to persuade her father to take her back, but Thymian's father has married his new housekeeper, Meta , and Meta wants no rivals.
Rebelling against the reformatory's rigid discipline, Thymian and her friend Erika  escape with Osdorff's help.
When Thymian goes to see her baby, she is told the child has just died.
After despondently wandering the streets, she re-unites with Erika, who is working in a small, upper-class brothel.
With no skills, Thymian also becomes a prostitute.
By chance, Thymian runs into her father, Meta and Meinert in a nightclub.
Her father is shocked when he realizes what she has become, but Meta and Meinhert take him away.
Three years later, her father dies.
With the expectation of inheriting a large amount of money, she decides to start a new life.
The others suggest she obtain a new identity by marrying Osdorff.
After thinking about it, he agrees.
At the lawyer's office, Meinhert buys Thymian's interest in the pharmacy, making her rich.
However, when she learns that Meinhert is throwing the widow and her two children out on the street, Thymian gives Meta the money so that her young half-sister will not suffer her fate.
Osdorff, who had been counting on the money to rebuild a life for himself too, throws himself out the window to his death when she tells him what she has done.
The uncle, grief-stricken, decides to make amends by taking care of Thymian.
He introduces her to his cousin as his niece, Countess Osdorff.
In a strange twist of fate, she is invited to become a director of the same reformatory where she herself was once held.
When an old friend is brought before the directors as an "especially difficult case", Thymian denounces the school and its "blessings" and takes her away.
Count Osdorff has the last word as he is leaving: "A little more love and no-one would be lost in this world.
"Englishman Rudolf Rassendyll  decides to pass the time by attending the coronation of his distant relation, King Rudolf V of Ruritania  .
He encounters an acquaintance on the train there, Antoinette de Mauban , the mistress of the king's treacherous brother, Grand Duke 'Black' Michael .
The day before the coronation, Rassendyll is seen by Colonel Sapt  and Captain Fritz von Tarlenheim .
Astounded by the uncanny resemblance between Rassendyll and their liege, they take him to meet Rudolf at a hunting lodge.
The king is delighted with his double and invites him to dinner.
During the meal, a servant brings in a fine bottle of wine, a present from Michael delivered by his henchman, Rupert of Hentzau .
After Rudolf tastes it, he finds it so irresistible that he drinks the entire bottle by himself.
The next morning, Sapt is unable to rouse him; the wine was drugged.
Sapt is afraid that if the coronation is postponed, Michael will seize the throne.
The country is dangerously divided between supporters of Rudolf and those of Michael.
The colonel declares that it is Fate that brought Rassendyll to Ruritania; he can take Rudolf's place with no one the wiser.
The Englishman is less certain, but he tosses a coin, which lands in Rudolf's favor, and Rassendyll goes through with the ceremony.
Afterwards, he is driven to the palace in the company of the universally adored Princess Flavia .
Later, when Rassendyll returns to the lodge to switch places with the king once more, he and Sapt find only the corpse of Josef , the servant left to guard the king.
Rassendyll is forced to continue the masquerade.
With Rudolf guarded by a handful of trusted retainers at Zenda Castle, Michael tries unsuccessfully to bribe Rassendyll into leaving.
In the days that follow, Rasssendyll becomes acquainted with Flavia, and the two fall in love.
Meanwhile, Rupert tries to alienate Antoinette from Michael by telling her that Michael will marry Flavia once Rudolf is out of the way.
However, it has an unintended effect; Antionette reveals Michael's plans and Rudolf's location to von Tarlenheim.
A dwarf assassin  in Michael's pay tries to garrot Rassendyll, but Sapt interrupts him before he can finish the job.
The would-be killer mistakenly signals to an anxiously waiting Michael that the deed is done, and the duke hastens to Zenda to quietly dispose of the real king.
However, Rassendyll was only rendered unconscious.
When von Tarlenheim arrives with his news, the three men chase after Michael.
Sapt and von Tarlenheim split up to find a way into the castle, but when Antoinette lowers the drawbridge, Rassendyll goes inside alone.
Though outnumbered, he manages to kill Michael in a swordfight.
Then Sapt and von Tarlenheim come to his aid.
When Rupert is cornered by the three men, he chooses a watery death over a waterfall rather than execution for treason.
In the aftermath, Rudolf resumes his rightful position, while Rassendyll hides out at the lodge.
By chance, Flavia stops there to speak with Colonel Sapt.
Despite Sapt's attempt to shield the princess from heartbreak, a servant girl blurts out that the "king" is staying at the lodge.
Rassendyll is forced to tell his beloved the bitter truth.
When he tries to persuade her to leave with him, her sense of honour and duty to her country force her to stay, and Rassendyll departs alone.A dancer known as Lou Lorraine feels her life is going nowhere.
She is married to Jim, who is working as a pianist at the same cabaret in a small village Lou is working at.
One day, a man nicknamed "Dangerous Dan" McGrew promises to make a big star on Broadway out of her, after which she immediately leaves with him.
She swears on staying faithful to her husband, promising to earn money to have Jim and her son sent to New York.
Jim, however, does not trust Dan and follows them to New York, where everything goes out of hand.Review Summary The New York TimesThe film is told in an extended flashback.
Lorenz Lubota , is a clerk in a minor government office, an aspiring poet, and a member of a family headed by a worrisome mother who has a tense relationship with a daughter, Melanie, whom the mother believes works as a prostitute.
While going to work one day, a woman  driving two white horses hits Lorenz in the road.
Physically, he is unharmed, but from that point forward, the woman in the carriage  consumes his every thought.
His obsession with Veronika costs him his job when he fails to show up for work and threatens his boss for accusing him of stalking her.
Believing that his poems are to be published, Lorenz asks his Aunt Schwabe  &mdash; a cutthroat pawnbroker &mdash; for money, which he then uses to buy a new suit.
Schwab's assistant, Wigottschinski , encourages Lorenz to celebrate and they reunite with Lorenz's sister, who becomes Wigottschinski's girlfriend.
Unable to contact Veronika, who is wealthy and engaged to someone of her own class, Lorenz instead begins courting a golddigger who looks like Veronika , lavishing her with expensive things, all the while reliving the day he was run over in his mind again and again.
In the meantime Lorenz's mother's health begins to deteriorate due to her worries over her son's and her daughter's actions, and Lorenz's friend Marie  and her father learn that Lorenz's poems will not be published after all.
Wigottschinski swindles more money out of Schwabe and gives Lorenz a sizable amount.
However, Aunt Schwabe becomes suspicious and discovers that Lorenz will not be a published poet, and she angrily demands that he pay back the money after three days or else she will notify the police.
Desperate, Lorenz agrees to Wigottschinski's plan to break into her house after she has gone to sleep and to steal enough money to pay back the loan.
She wakes up and discovers them, running to the window to call for the police.
A struggle ensues, and Wigottschinski kills her, while Melanie runs off and eventually briefly reunites with her mother before disappearing.
Lorenz is arrested and sent to prison.
After his release, the film returns to the present, where Lorenz is finishing writing his life story down, in an attempt to purge his mind from the phantom woman who continually hits him in her carriage.
Lorenz also now has a new life with Marie.The film is a contemporary  picture that takes place in New York City.
The story involves a mad scientist who turns circumstances on a young man to do his bidding.
Robert Sandell , despondent over his ill luck as a writer, and his mother's declining health, attacks and attempts to rob a theatergoer, Dr. Lamb , a sinister, fanatical physician living in the suburbs of New York.
Lamb takes the boy to his home, learns his story, and agrees to perform an operation on Mrs. Sandell  on one consideration&nbsp;– that Robert shall at the end of eight days, deliver himself to the doctor to do with as he will, for experimental purposes.
Frantic with worry over his dying mother's condition, Robert agrees.
Mother and son take up their residence in the Lamb home, where Robert is closely watched, not only by the doctor, but by his wife , and a grotesque hunchback , whom Robert learns afterwards is the result of one of the doctor's experiments.
Dr. Lamb, anxious to keep his hold on Robert, not only gives him spending money, but assists him in having his book published through Wytcherly, head of a publishing company.
Robert meets Wytcherly's daughter, Angela  and promptly falls in love.
In the meantime, the days are slipping by to the time of the experiment.
Robert has been warned by Mrs. Lamb and the hunchback that great danger threatens him.
At dawn, they show him as a warning a mysterious underground vault in which is a complete operating room and a tunnel of cages in which are strange prisoners&nbsp;– previously failed experiment of Lamb's.
In agony and fear, Robert goes to the physician and tries to buy himself out of the bargain&nbsp;– for his book has been published, and he is now a successful writer.
There is yet one day before the time limit is up, but the doctor, realizing his victim may try to escape, seizes him, and straps him to the operating table.
He is rescued by Mrs. Lamb, and the hunchback releases a cage door and the doctor is himself brought to a horrible end at the hands of an ape-man wrecked mentally by the doctor's experiments.
Finally freed from the terms of his "blind bargain", Robert returns to his home to learn that his writings have met with success and that Angela waits for him at the marriage ceremony.A man known only as the Virginian  is ranch foreman at Box H Ranch near Medicine Bow, Wyoming.
At a saloon in Medicine Bow, he and the cattle rustler Trampas  vie for the attentions of a barmaid; when Trampas insults him, the Virginian pulls a gun and tells him to smile.
Soon afterwards, Molly Wood , a new schoolteacher from Vermont, arrives in town.
The Virginian and a drifter named Steve  vie for her attentions, but she ultimately chooses the latter.
However, as Steve was his childhood friend, the Virginian gives him a job at the ranch.
Unhappy with the Virginian's violent nature, Molly tries to change him but is unsuccessful.
Meanwhile, Steve and the Virginian enjoy playing pranks together, switching babies during a baptism; they also make quail calls for secret communications.
However, Steve falls in with Trampas' gang.
Although warned by the Virginian that no good will come of it, Steve continues with the gang.
When they  steal cattle from Box H Ranch, the Virginian is forced to hang all involved, including Steve.
The Virginian vows revenge on Trampas for forcing him to do so.
Disgusted by The Virginian's callousness, Molly leaves him.
However, after he is shot in the back by Trampas, she decides to treat him, and they fall further in love; they eventually decide to marry.
On their wedding day, Trampas comes back to town for revenge and challenges the Virginian to a shoot-out.
The Virginian quickly draws his six-shooter and kills the bandit in the streets.
He then marries Molly, and the two prepare to open their own ranch.The film begins with the screaming visage of a young blonde woman, framed against a sheet of glass, her golden hair illuminated.
She is the latest victim of a serial killer known as "The Avenger", who targets young blonde women.
That night, Daisy Bunting , a blonde model, is at a fashion parade where she and the other showgirls heard the news of the murder.
The blonde girls are horrified; covering their hair with dark wigs or hats while Daisy laughs at their fears.
She returns home to her parents, Mr and Mrs Bunting, and her policeman sweetheart, Joe , who have been reading the details of the latest Avenger crime in the day's paper.
Later that same night a new tenant  arrives at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Bunting and inquires about the room they are renting.
Mrs. Bunting  takes him to the room on the top floor of her house which is decorated with portraits of beautiful young women, all blondes.
The man is rather reclusive and secretive, which puzzles Mrs. Bunting.
However she does not complain after he willingly pays her a month's rent in advance, and asks only for bread, butter, and a glass of milk and to be left in peace.
Mrs. Bunting leaves her new tenant and tells her husband the good news, showing him the small fortune she has been paid.
Upon returning with the lodger's meal, she is surprised to find him turning all the portraits of the women around to face the wall, and he politely requests that they be removed.
Mrs. Bunting enlists Daisy to remove the portraits, and upon first sight an attraction begins to form between Daisy and the lodger.
The women bid him goodnight and return downstairs, where they hear the lodger's heavy footsteps as he paces the floor.
Over the course of the following week, the relationship between Daisy and the reclusive lodger gradually heats up, and Joe, newly assigned to the Avenger case, begins to resent the closeness developing between them.
The following Tuesday, Mrs. Bunting is awoken late in the night by the lodger leaving the house.
She is suspicious and searches his room in his absence, finding a cupboard that has been locked tight.
In the morning, another blonde girl is found dead just around the corner from their house.
Joe and his fellow policemen, after weighing the latest clues, observe that the murders are moving towards the Buntings' neighborhood.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Bunting voices her fears to her husband that the lodger is the Avenger, and the two become fearful for Daisy's safety, agreeing to prevent her from spending further time alone with the stranger.
Daisy remains oblivious to any danger, and the next Tuesday night, she and the lodger manage to sneak away on a late night date.
Joe tracks them down, and confronting them, is told by Daisy that it's over between them.
The heartbroken Joe is left to ponder his fortunes while the lodger and Daisy head home.
As Joe sits, he begins to piece the events of the previous weeks together and convinces himself that the lodger is indeed the murdering Avenger.
With a warrant in hand and two fellow officers in tow, Joe returns to search the lodger's room.
In the locked cupboard they find a leather bag containing a gun, a map plotting the location of the Avenger's murders, newspapers and a photograph of an attractive blonde woman.
Taking the lodger's emotional reaction as an admission of guilt, Joe surmises this woman was the Avenger's first victim.
The lodger is arrested despite Daisy's protests, but manages to escape and runs off into the night.
Daisy follows and finds him, still handcuffed, coatless, and shivering in the fog.
He explains that the photograph found in his room was his sister, a beautiful debutante who was murdered by the Avenger at a dance she had attended with her brother.
He then vowed to his mother on her deathbed he would not rest until he had brought the killer to justice.
Daisy brings the lodger to a nearby pub to give him brandy to warm him, hiding his handcuffs with a cloak.
The locals, suspicious of the pair, pursue them, quickly gathering numbers until they are a veritable lynch mob.
The lodger is surrounded and beaten, while Daisy and Joe, who has just heard the news from headquarters that the real Avenger has been caught, try in vain to defend him.
When all looks lost, a paperboy interrupts with the news that the real Avenger has been arrested.
The mob releases the lodger who falls into Daisy's waiting arms.While at an amusement park, trying vainly to forget the girl he has lost, a young man  sees the girl  with her new boyfriend .
When her dog gets loose in the park, both suitors have to help her catch it.
The girl's uncle, a balloonist, gives her a pass for two in his balloon, provided that her mother approves.
She then offers to take along the first of her admirers who is able to get her mother's consent.
The girl's new boyfriend races to her house to get the mother's permission, while the young man tries to telephone her.
The young man faces crowded phone booths, gossiping operators, a crying baby and other obstacles in his effort to reach the mother first.
Racing back to the girl, the two suitors bump into one another and a pickpocket who has just robbed the girl of her purse.
The boy is mistaken for the pickpocket and must elude various policemen on his way back to meet the girl.Western & Atlantic Railroad train engineer Johnnie Gray  is in Marietta, Georgia to see one of the two loves of his life, his fiancee Annabelle Lee —the other being his locomotive, The General—when the American Civil War breaks out.
He hurries to be first in line to sign up with the Confederate Army, but is rejected because he is too valuable in his present job.
On leaving, he runs into Annabelle's father and brother, who beckon to him to join them in line, but he sadly walks away, giving them the impression that he does not want to enlist.
Annabelle coldly informs Johnnie that she will not speak to him again until he is in uniform.
A year passes, and Annabelle receives word that her father has been wounded.
She travels north on the General to see him but still wants nothing to do with Johnnie.
When the train makes a stop, the passengers detrain for a quick meal.
As planned, Union spies led by Captain Anderson  use the opportunity to steal the train.
Annabelle becomes an inadvertent prisoner.
Johnnie gives chase, first on foot, then by handcar and boneshaker bicycle, before reaching a station in Chattanooga.
He alerts the army detachment there, which boards another train to give chase, with Johnnie manning the locomotive, the Texas.
However, the flatcars are not hooked up to the engine, and the troops are left behind.
By the time Johnnie realizes he is alone, it is too late to turn back.
The Union agents try a variety of methods to shake their dogged pursuer , including disconnecting their trailing car and dropping railroad ties on the tracks.
As the unusual duel continues northward, the Confederate Army of Tennessee is ordered to retreat and the Northern army advances in its wake.
Johnnie finally notices he is surrounded by Union soldiers and the hijackers see that Johnnie is by himself.
Johnnie stops his locomotive and runs into the forest to hide.
At nightfall, Johnnie stumbles upon the Northern army encampment.
Hungry, he climbs through a window to steal some food but has to hide underneath the table when enemy officers enter.
He overhears them discussing their plan to launch a surprise attack; Johnnie learns that securing the Rock River Bridge is essential for their supply trains.
He then sees Annabelle brought in; she is taken to a room under guard while they decide what to do with her.
After the meeting ends, Johnnie manages to knock out both of the guards and free Annabelle.
They escape into the woods.
The next day, Johnnie and Annabelle creep out of the woods and find themselves near a railway station, where Union soldiers, guns, trains and equipment are being organized for the attack.
Seeing the General in the midst of it all, Johnnie devises a plan to warn the South.
After sneaking Annabelle, hidden inside a sack, onto a boxcar behind the General, Johnnie steals his engine back.
Two other trains, including the Texas, set out after the pair, while the Northern attack is immediately set in motion.
In a reversal of the first chase, Johnnie has to fend off his pursuers.
Finally, he starts a fire behind the General in the center of the Rock River Bridge.
Reaching friendly lines, Johnnie informs the local army commander of the impending attack.
Confederate forces rush to defend the bridge.
Meanwhile, Annabelle is reunited with her convalescing father.
The Texas is driven onto the burning bridge, but it collapses, in what would later come to be recognized as the most expensive stunt of the silent era.
{{cite web}} Union soldiers try to ford the river, but Confederate artillery and infantrymen open fire on them, eventually driving them back in disarray.
As a reward for his bravery, Johnnie is enlisted in the army as a lieutenant.
In the final scene, Johnnie tries to kiss his girlfriend but is obliged to return the salutes of passing soldiers.
Johnnie finally uses one hand to embrace his girlfriend while using his other to blindly salute the men as they walk by.Valentino plays Count Rodrigo Torriani, an Italian noble.
A charming libertine, his weakness is women--the "cobras" referred to in the title of the film.
Roridgo accepts an invitation from friend Jack Dorning  to come to New York City to work as an antiques expert.
While the job is rewarding, Rodrigo finds the temptation from the women surrounding him, including Dorning's secretary Mary Drake  and wife Elise  challenging.
When Jack is away, Elise reveals to Rodrigo that she is still in love with him.
The two arrange to meet at a hotel.
However, at the last minute, Rodrigo remembers he cannot betray his friend and refuses to go to the rendezvous.
It turns out to be a wise decision; the hotel burns to the ground in the middle of the night, killing Elise.
Rodrigo desperately wants a relationship with Mary.
However, after Elise's death, he turns Mary's attentions toward Jack and decides to leave New York.
The film ends with Rodrigo gazing out at the sea and the Statue of Liberty as he sets sail back to Europe.
The production of Cobra was marred by bickering and soaring production costs.
Furthermore, its studio Paramount Pictures, unhappy with the final film and fearing it would flop with audiences and critics, held off releasing it until Valentino  appeared in a stronger, unequivocally successful picture.
Eventually Cobra was released in late 1925, a few weeks after what proved to be Valentino's comeback feature, The Eagle.
Cobra has survived and has been made available to the public, on both VHS and DVD, by independent film dealers and major movie distributors.
In the North African town of Biskra, headstrong Lady Diana Mayo  refuses a marriage proposal because she believes it would be the end of her independence.
Against her brother's wishes, she is planning a month-long trip into the desert escorted only by natives.
When Diana goes to the local casino, she is informed it has been appropriated for the evening by an important Sheik, and that none but Arabs may enter.
Annoyed at being told what she cannot do, and her curiosity piqued, Diana borrows an Arab dancer's costume and sneaks in.
Inside, she finds men gambling for new wives.
When she is selected to be the next prize, she resists.
Sheik Ahmed Ben Hassan  intervenes, then realizes she is white.
Amused, he sends her away.
Afterward, Mustapha Ali  informs the Sheik she is the woman he has been hired to guide tomorrow.
The Sheik hatches a plan.
Early the next morning, he sneaks into her room and tampers with the bullets in her revolver as she is sleeping.
As her brother leaves her to her desert excursion, she assures him he will see her in London next month.
The Sheik and his men come upon Diana riding alone.
She tries to flee while shooting at the Sheik, but he easily captures her.
Back at his encampment, he orders her about.
She is unused to such treatment, but the Sheik tells her she will learn and demands she dress like a woman  for dinner.
Diana tries again to escape, this time into a raging sand storm.
The Sheik saves her from certain death, and tells her she will learn to love him.
Later, he finds Diana alone in her quarters weeping.
The Sheik considers forcing himself upon her, but decides against it.
After a week, the Sheik is delighted by the news that his close friend from his days in Paris  is coming for a visit.
Diana is dismayed at the thought of being seen in Arab dress by a Westerner, but the Sheik does not understand her shame.
When she is introduced to writer and doctor Raoul St. Hubert , Diana's spirit is nearly broken.
He befriends her and reprimands the Sheik for his callous treatment of her.
The Sheik returns her Western clothing, though he refuses to release her.
When Raoul is called away to tend to an injured man, Diana shows concern that it might be the Sheik.
Seeing this from hiding, the Sheik is elated that she may be warming up to him at last.
He gives Diana her gun back, telling her he trusts her.
Diana is allowed to go into the desert under the watchful eye of the Sheik's French valet Gaston .
She escapes.
Making her way across the sands, she spots a caravan, unaware that it belongs to the bandit Omair ([[Walter Long .
Fortunately, the Sheik and his men reach her first.
The Sheik reveals to Raoul he is in love with Diana.
His friend convinces him to let her go.
Meanwhile, Diana is allowed out once more.
She playfully writes "I love you Ahmed" in the sand.
Then Omair's band captures her, killing her guards and leaving the wounded Gaston for dead.
When the Sheik goes looking for Diana, he sees her message, then learns from Gaston who has abducted her.
He gathers his men to attack Omair's stronghold.
Omair tries to force himself on Diana, but is almost stabbed by one of his women.
Then the Sheik and his men sweep in.
After a long fight, the Sheik kills Omair, but is himself gravely injured.
Raoul tends to him and tells Diana he has a chance.
She sits and holds the Sheik's hand.
When she remarks that his hand is big for an Arab, Raoul reveals that the Sheik is not one.
His father was British and his mother Spanish.
They died in the desert, and their child was rescued and raised by the old Sheik.
When the old man died, Ahmed returned to rule the tribe.
When Ahmed wakes up, Diana confesses her love.Joe arrives as the new boy in school, and the boys decide to initiate him into their secret club, the Cluck Cluck Klams.
During the proceedings, a couple of auto thieves break into the barn, and when they make their getaway, Farina and Jackie are in the back seat.
The story involves two newlyweds, Keaton and Seely, who receive a build-it-yourself house as a wedding gift.
The house can be built, supposedly, in "one week".
A rejected suitor secretly re-numbers packing crates.
The movie recounts Keaton's struggle to assemble the house according to this new "arrangement".
The end result is depicted in the picture.
As if this weren't enough, Keaton finds he has built his house on the wrong site and has to move it.
The movie reaches its tense climax when the house becomes stuck on railroad tracks.
Keaton and Seely try to move it out the way of an oncoming train, which eventually passes on the neighboring track.
As the couple look relieved, the house is immediately struck and demolished by another train coming the other way.
Keaton stares at the scene, places a 'For Sale' sign with the heap  and walks off with Seely.
The New York Times movie review said, "One Week, a Buster Keaton work, has more fun in it than most slap-stick, trick-property comedies.
"<ref name  The Screen | newspaper  22 | date = October 25, 1920}}After finding out her father and his estate is in danger, Princess Emanuella saves his life by marrying Duke Cathos de Alvia, a grotesque hunchback.
She actually is in love with Leonardo, his attractive younger brother.
They already had an affair before the marriage, but continue secretly meeting each other.
In the end, Cathos finds out about his wife's unfaithfulness and stabs both his wife and brother to death.
{{cite web}}If there was one thing that Don Juan de Marana learned from his father Don Jose, it was that women gave you three things - life, disillusionment and death.
In his father's case it was his wife, Donna Isobel, and Donna Elvira who supplied the latter.
Don Juan settled in Rome after attending the University of Pisa.
Rome was run by the tyrannical Borgia family consisting of Caesar, Lucrezia and their evil cousin Count Donati.
Juan has his way with and was pursued by many women, but it is the one that he could not have that haunts him.
It will be for her that he suffers the wrath of Borgia for ignoring Lucrezia and then killing Count Donati in a duel.
For Adriana, they will both be condemned to death in the prison on the river Tiber.IMDB entrySir Edward Pelham, who has married a Russian Gypsy, fears that his daughter will follow in her mother's footsteps and arranges a marriage with her cousin, whom she does not love.
During a trip to Nevada with her father, she meets engineer Bayard Delavel, who saves her life when she is bitten by a snake; when her father finds her with Bayard in his cabin, he forces them to marry.
Believing that Nadine does not love him, Delavel leaves her and prepares to sue for divorce.
In Washington, Nadine is reconciled with her father and agrees to marry Hopper, a millionaire; she meets Delavel on the night of her engagement ball, however, and the lovers are reunited.When young Lotus Flower sees an unconscious man floating in the water near the seashore, she quickly gets help for him.
The man is Allen Carver, an American visiting China.
Soon the two have fallen in love, and Carver promises to take her with him when he returns home.
But Carver's friends discourage him from doing this, and he returns to the USA alone.
By the time the two of them meet again a few years later, much has changed: Lotus Flower has a young son by Carver, but he has returned to China with a wife.
Lotus Flower is reluctantly persuaded that her son would be better raised with his father in America.
After they leave with the boy, Lotus Flower wades into the sea and drowns.
The film ends with a title stating FINIS.Emak-Bakia shows elements of fluid mechanical poo in parts, rotating artifacts showing his ideas of everyday objects being extended and rendered useless.
Kiki of Montparnasse  is shown driving a car in a scene through a town.
Towards the middle of the film Jacques Rigaut appears dressed in female clothing and make-up.
Later in the film a caption appears  La raison de cette extravagance   And it cuts to a car arriving and a passenger leaving with briefcase entering a building, opening the case revealing men&#39;s shirt collars which he proceeds to tear in half.
The collars are then used a focus for the film, rotating through double exposures.Manuel Granado rediscovers a son he thought had died years before to see him engaged to the daughter of the bandit who had kidnapped the son and turned him into a matador.A manicurist wins a beauty contest while posing as a debutante, and reveals her deception via a new craze, the radio.Irene  is a young woman unhappily married to an older gentleman; to add to her woes, she is in love with a young lawyer, André .
Unable to find a solution to continue their romance, they stop seeing each other.
Irene starts spending her time with young Pierre , the son of her husband's business associate, who is infatuated with her.
When Pierre leaves for college, he begs her for a goodbye kiss.
After a chaste kiss, Pierre steals another – as Irene's husband takes notice.
A murder mystery and trial ensue.Repossession men Laurel and Hardy serve a summons to Mr. Kennedy, who has failed to pay the installments for his radio.
They wind up destroying both their car and the radio, as Mrs. Kennedy returns home to announce she's just paid for the radio.Stan and Ollie are musicians, travelling by train to their next gig in Pottsville, Pennsylvania, a very popular vaudeville performance location at the time.
They spend most of the trip trying to change into pajamas and get comfortable in a cramped upper berth.An old flame  of businessman Titus Tillsbury ([[James Finlayson  threatens to expose their past, destroying both his marriage and career.
He sends his aide  to keep her away from a dinner party he and his wife are hosting that evening.laurelandhardycentral.com/leawChris Helmer  is sentenced to 20 years in prison by Judge Banning , and has to leave his wife and baby girl.
By coincidence, the judge has a daughter about the same age.
Eighteen years later, the two now motherless young women  graduate, Florence Banning from an exclusive private school, Molly Helmer from reform school.
Molly and her two friends become taxi dancers.
One day, Molly rejects the advances of a stranger at the dance hall where she works.
When her boyfriend, "Chunky" Dunn , tries to defend her, he gets knocked down.
She is rescued by Chunky's friend, inventor David Page , and falls in love with him.
Page is oblivious to this and only sees her as a good pal.
The more perceptive Chunky becomes increasingly jealous.
Page perfects a device that can open any safe.
Chunky tells him that he knows a gang of crooks who would pay a lot of money for it, but Molly tells him that crime does not pay.
Page shows his invention to the directors of a bank, Judge Banning being one.
They are impressed and purchase it.
As he is leaving the meeting, David bumps into Florence.
She too falls for him.
Soon, they are dating, much to the displeasure of Florence's spinster aunt.
However, when Florence meets Molly by accident at David's workshop, she can see that Molly also loves David.
She tells David that Molly has a greater claim to him and breaks up with him.
When she gets into her limousine however, she finds Molly there waiting for her.
Molly urges her to marry David, thinking only of his happiness.
To fool David into believing she never loved him, Molly accepts Chunky's standing offer of marriage.When impoverished Nanette Roland refuses to marry Buck McDougall until she is convinced that her long-absent fiancé, Raoul Challoner, is dead, Buck obtains false evidence of Challoner's death and Nanette yields to his wishes.
At their wedding ceremony, Raoul appears and is about to take Nanette away, when Buck attacks him and, in the ensuing battle, Raoul accidentally kills a man and is arrested.
That night, Nanette helps him escape and, after a hasty wedding, they flee into the wilderness.
Corporal O'Connor of the North-West Mounted Police is given the assignment of capturing him, and three years later, the Mountie, aided by Buck, discovers Raoul's cabin in the woods.
Just as he arrests the fugitive, a forest fire breaks out, trapping Nanette, Raoul and their baby in the flames.
O'Connor, injured by a fallen tree, is rescued by Raoul and the four reach safety, but Buck perishes in the fire.
O'Connor, feeling a debt of gratitude, agrees to testify to Raoul's death and the family realizes that their troubles are at an end.Jill Deverne is a chorus girl married to alcoholic composer Fred.
She wants to show Fred's latest song, A Year From Today, to racketeer Joe Prividi.
Prividi is the producer of the musical show she is working in and agrees to use his song.
Fred, however, refuses any favours and rejects Prividi's offer.
When Prividi uses the song anyway, Fred and his friend Johnny Dolan become drunk and show up at a nightclub.
In a raid, the police discover Fred with chorus girl Ruthie.
Jill is disgusted with his behavior and dumps him.
She is soon courted by Prividi, who is very overprotective.
At a private party, a gambler forces himself on her and is shot by Prividi.
Prividi is arrested and sent to jail.
Jill doesn't want to be left behind and plans a future with Fred.
Prividi becomes jealous and sends gunmen to shoot and kill Fred.
He is eventually stopped and put in jail, while Jill and Fred ride off in a train to start a new life.A young British Bohemian , who lives in Paris, marries a stage dancer .
He persuades her to give up her stage career, and they take a cottage in the country.
She accepts an invitation from her former manager  to attend a party.
She performs a dance at the party.
She quarrels with her husband, but starts searching for him in the countryside on a stormy night.
As a result, she catches pneumonia and nearly dies.
After being nursed back to health by her husband, she decides to give up the stage for good.Newspaper magnate Forbes Lombard  discovers that his daughter Lola  is mixed up with a gang of gamblers.
Reporter Scott Seldon  pretends to be a felon and goes undercover to infiltrate the mob and get a news scoop.
He falls in love with the gang's leader, female crook Dora Blake .
The two are captured in a police raid and under extreme questioning are forced to sign confessions.
When Scott is released from prison, he tracks down Dora and finds she has returned to her old ways.
After he vows his love, the two marry and begin a new life.Mickey Hogan  is an orphan cabin boy on a ship commanded by a cruel captain .
His only friend is a black cat, called Man Friday.
A storm shipwrecks Mickey on an island, where is made into a captive war god.
The next island is run by a white man Adolphe Schmidt , who lives there with his daughter Gretta .Stan and Ollie play door-to-door Christmas tree salesmen in California.
They end up getting into an escalating feud with grumpy would-be customer James Finlayson, with his home and their car being destroyed in the melee.
A police officer steps in to stop the fight and negotiates a peaceful resolution.
Stan and Ollie give the homeowner a cigar as a peace offering.
However, as the pair make their escape, the trick cigar promptly explodes in his face.Buster is married with two children .
He has built a large boat he has christened Damfino inside his home.
When he finishes and decides to take it out to sea, he discovers it is too large to fit through the door.
Buster enlarges the opening, but when he tows the boat out, it brushes the side and his house collapses.
Buster loses his car in attempting to launch the boat.
While out on the Pacific, Buster and his family are caught in a terrible storm.
The boat is barely seaworthy to begin with, and he does not help matters when he nails a picture to the side of the hull, or when he drills a hole in the bottom for an outlet for the resulting leak.
He radios for help, but when the navy or coast guard operator asks who it is, he answers, "Damfino."
The man interprets it as "damn if I know" and dismisses the call.
Taking to a dinghy, Buster and his family wash up on a deserted beach.
"Where are we?"
asks his wife, to which Buster replies, "Damfino.
"Diana , Nevs  and David  were playmates as children, members of the rich British aristocracy.
Diana and Neville are in love, but his father  opposes the match, disapproving the Merrick family's lifestyle.
Neville is thus sent to Egypt for business purposes and become wealthier.
At the same time, David, also in love with Diana and good friends with her brother Jeffry , marries her, after Diana's wait in vain for two years for Neville's return.
During their honeymoon to Paris and after the arrival of police inspectors, David commits suicide without an explanation.
Diana does not explain the reasons behind her husband's action.
Jeffry, who was deeply connected to David, blames his sister for his friend's disappearance: he falls deeper into alcohol as his sister starts a reckless life, seducing man after man.
Years later, Neville returns to England to marry Constance .
Jeffry is gravely ill and both Diana and Nevs come to his bedside.
As they meet, they realize they are still in love and spend one night together.
Jeffry passes away and Neville marries Constance.
A few months go by: Diana falls ill  and is visited by Neville—Diana professes her love for him before realizing Constance is in the room.
She reveals the reason for David's suicide: he was a thief, pursued by the Police.
Diana, realizing that their love will ruin him, tells him that his wife is pregnant and sends him away.
Diana drives herself into a tree, in front of which she and Neville had fallen in love and swore eternal fidelity.Elmer, a humble worker in a dry cleaning establishment, idolizes stage actress Trilby Drew .
She, in turn, is carrying a torch for fellow actor Lionel Benmore .
When he spurns her for the younger Ethyl Norcrosse , she impulsively asks Elmer to marry her, only to regret it almost immediately.
Her handlers extricate her from the marriage, and when Elmer finds himself first in the hands of criminals and then at sea, he is more than happy for the opportunity to forget her.
But a series of coincidences throw Elmer and Trilby back together again and she will have cause to re-evaluate her opinion of him.We see Mary Magdalene, here portrayed as a wild courtesan, entertain many men around her.
Upon learning that Judas is with a carpenter she rides out on her chariot drawn by zebras to get him back.
Peter is introduced as the Giant apostle, and we see the future gospel writer Mark as a child who is healed by Jesus.
The Virgin Mary is shown as a beautiful and saintly woman who is a mother to all her son's followers.
Our first sight of Jesus is through the eyesight of a little girl, whom He heals.
He is surrounded by a halo.
Mary Magdelene arrives afterwards and talks to Judas, who reveals that he is only staying with Jesus in hopes of being made a king after Jesus becomes the king of kings.
Jesus casts the Seven Deadly Sins out of Mary Magdalene in a multiple exposure sequence.
Jesus is also shown resurrecting Lazarus and healing the little children.
Some humor is derived when one girl asks if He can heal broken legs and He says yes, she gives him a legless doll.
Jesus smiles and repairs the doll.
The crucifixion is foreshadowed when Jesus, having helped a poor family, wanders through the father's carpentry shop and, himself a carpenter's son, briefly helps carve a piece of wood.
When a sheet covering the object is removed, it is revealed to be a cross towering over Jesus.
Jesus and His apostles enter Jerusalem, where Judas incites the people and rallies them to proclaim Jesus King of the Jews.
Jesus, however, renounces all claims of being an Earthly king.
Caiaphas the High Priest is also angry at Judas for having led people to a man whom he sees as a false prophet.
Meanwhile Jesus drives away Satan who offers Him an Earthly kingdom, and he protects the woman caught in adultery.
The words he draws in the sand are revealed to be the sins the accusers themselves committed.
Judas, desperate to save himself from Caiaphas, agrees to turn over Jesus.
Noticeably at the Last Supper, when Jesus distributes the bread and wine saying that they are His body and blood, Judas refuses to eat.
He puts the cup to his lips but refuses to drink; he tears off a piece of bread but lets it drop to the ground.
Towards the end, Mary confronts her son and tells Him to flee the danger that is coming.
Jesus replies that it must be done for the salvation of all peoples.
They leave the room but the camera focuses on the table where a dove flies on and stays for a moment.
Jesus goes to the Garden of Gethsemane where He is soon captured by the Roman soldiers and betrayed by Judas.
Judas' life is saved, but on seeing that Jesus is going to be killed he is horrified.
He takes a rope that the Romans had used to bind Jesus' wrists and runs off.
Jesus is beaten and then presented by Pontius Pilate to the crowd.
Mary pleads for the life of her son and Mary Magdalene speaks for Him but Caiaphas bribes the crowd to shout against Jesus.
Jesus is taken away to be crucified, though He pauses the Via Dolorosa to heal a group of cripples in an alley, regardless of His weakened condition.
He is crucified and His enemies throw insults at Him.
When Jesus does die, however, a great earthquake comes up.
The tree where Judas had hanged himself with the rope used to bind Jesus's wrists is swallowed up amidst gouts of hellfire.
The sky turns black, lightning strikes, the wind blows, the people who had mocked Jesus run on terror, and the veil covering the Holy of Holies in the Jerusalem Temple is torn in two.
The tumult ends when Mary looks up at heaven and asks God to forgive the world for the death of their son.
The chaos ends and the sun shines.
Jesus is taken down from the cross and is buried.
On the third day, He rises from the dead as promised.
To emphasize the importance of the resurrection, this scene from an otherwise black and white film is shot in color.
Jesus goes to the Apostles and tells them to spread His message to the world.
He tells them "I am with you always" as the scene shifts to a modern city to show that Jesus still watches over His followers.
Many of the film's intertitles are quotes  from Scripture, often with chapter and verse accompanying.The gang is trying just about anything to pass the time during their summer vacation.
As usual, Mickey and Jack are trying to win the affections of Mary.
In the interim, the village blacksmith, "Dad" Anderson , receives a lucrative contract to produce a creation of his: a sail-propelled scooter.
The gang is lucky enough to get a hold of a few of these scooters, and happily sail down the city streets.Priscilla is married to an artist called Leon.
However Leon isn't showing much interest in his wife so she hatches a plot to win back his affections.
Ollie plays the butler.
Stan arrives at the door to sell paint and has a fight with Ollie.
Priscilla employs Stan to "Make love to her" and ensure Leon becomes jealous.
Ollie has to wash and dress Stan and make him look presentable enough to fool Leon at a dinner party that night.
Priscilla admits to Leon what she has done and he pulls a gun to teach the 'home-wrecker' a lesson.
Leon corners Stan and admits he's just acting to make Priscilla think he's really jealous.
Ollie doesn't realise this and he chases Stan out of the house with a rifle.
Ollie returns looking shaken.
A police officer follows him and says "You nearly blew my brains out".
Leon and Priscilla hug.In Sicily, Count Martinello is assassinated by Cardi and his mafia group on what would have been his wedding day.
His bride to be, Countess Margherita, gets word of this from American Norvin Blake, who fails to protect her from Cardi, who wants her for his own.
Later, Margherita and Norvin meet in New Orleans, where he declares his love for her.
Recognizing Gian Norcone as the group leader that killed the count, Norvin has him arrested after getting into a fight with him.
Caesar Maruffi, a supposed friend and admirer who suits Margherita, is discovered to be Cardi.
In the middle of a fight between Cardi and Norvin, Cardi is stabbed by Lucrezia, Margherita's maid.
In the end, Norvin finally wins Margherita.Film Fun, May 1922, Vol.
35, No.
397, p.51The American Film Institute Catalog of Motion Pictures Produced in the United States: Feature Films, 1961-1970.
Berkeley: University of California Press, 1997. p. 323.
ISBN 0-520-20970-2 The film opens near a subway terminal from which Buster Keaton emerges.
He finds people gambling in a house with lots of money.
He tries to scare them with the cutout of a poster with a man holding gun.
He puts the cutout at the window and says, "Raise your hands in air".
But soon they find out when a drunk man falls over the cutout and Buster has to run.
Next, he mistakenly enters a house thinking that its his own house.
Inside the house, he sees a man and a woman kissing.
He takes her for his wife, gets red hot angry and shoots them both, later to realize his mistake.
He goes to his own house this time to find his irritating wife.
Some object hits his yelling wife and she faints.
A passing police officer knocks at the door after hearing her scream.
Buster saves himself by playing music on gramophone and pretending to dance with his fainted wife.
As soon as the officer leaves, he lets the fainted wife fall down and looks out of the window.
He discovers a pretty but married neighbor , quickly wears good clothes and takes flowers to her where she imagines he looks like Erich von Stroheim.
The husband of this pretty neighbor comes back and Buster has to run.
The rest of the movie is filled with funny situations of him chasing after that pretty neighbor.
In the end, he wakes up in the front row of a film theater to realize that it was all a dream.
{{expand section}} The movie takes an anti-white superiority viewpoint.
Dr. Matthew Lloyd, an alcoholic doctor is disgusted by the exploitation by white people of the natives on a Polynesian island.
The natives dive for pearls.
However, numerous accidents occur and one diver dies.
In anger, Dr. Lloyd punches Sebastian, the employer.
As revenge and to prevent further interruption of his activities, he tricks Dr. Lloyd onto a ship with a deceased crew  and his men rough him up and send the ship off into a storm.
Dr. Lloyd survives and is washed ashore on an island where none of the natives have ever seen a white man....Glenn Kilbourne  returns from the war and travels to Arizona to regain his health.
There he is nursed back to health by an Arizona girl, Flo Hutter .
Kilbourne's fiancée, Carley Burch , arrives in Arizona but soon becomes disillusioned with life in the West and returns to New York.
Sometime later, Flo is seriously injured in an accident.
Wanting to repay her for restoring him back to health, Glenn asks her to marry him.
On their wedding day, Carley returns to Arizona from New York looking for Glenn.
When Flo sees that Glenn and Carley are still in love, she calls off her wedding to Glenn and marries another admirer, Lee Stanton .
The story is set in Paris ten years before Columbus discovered America.
Quasimodo is a deformed  bell-ringer of the famous Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris.
His master, Jehan Frollo, the evil brother of the saintly archdeacon, Dom Claude Frollo, prevails upon the hunchback to kidnap the fair Esmeralda, the adopted daughter of Clopin, who is the king of the oppressed beggars of Paris' underworld.
The dashing Captain Phoebus rescues her from Quasimodo, while Jehan escapes and leaves him.
Phoebus is entranced by Esmeralda, and takes her under his wing.
Quasimodo is sentenced to be lashed in the public square.
As he suffers under the sting of the whip, Esmeralda pities him, and brings him water.
Quasimodo later hates Jehan for betraying him.
Jehan and Clopin both learn that Phoebus plans to wed Esmeralda.
Clopin leads the beggars into the house of Phoebus' fiance, where Phoebus has brought Esmeralda and disguised her as royalty.
Clopin demands Esmeralda be returned, and Phoebus only does so after Esmeralda says that she does not belong with the aristocracy.
However, Esmeralda sends him a note, to say goodbye to him a last time.
During their meeting in Notre Dame, Jehan stabs and wounds Phoebus and lays the blame on Esmeralda.
She is sentenced to death, but is rescued from the gallows by Quasimodo and takes refuge in the cathedral, where Dom Claude invokes the sacred right of sanctuary, protecting her from arrest.
Clopin leads the whole of the underworld to storm the cathedral that night, while crafty Jehan attempts to loot the treasure vaults.
Quasimodo routs the invaders with rocks and torrents of molten lead, and kills Jehan by throwing him off the ramparts of Notre Dame.
Just before he does, however, Jehan fatally stabs Quasimodo in the back with his knife.
Phoebus comes to the rescue and encounters Esmeralda.
As she and Phoebus clasp each other to their hearts, Quasimodo rings his own death toll.
Esmeralda and Phoebus leave without even noticing that Quasimodo is mortally wounded, but Dom Claude and Pierre Gringoire, a street poet, enter just in time to see him die.
After ringing the bell, Quasimodo dies.
The last image of the film is the great bell, swinging silently, holding the corpse of Quasimodo.On the island of Tutuila , a smoking, drinking, jazz listening, young prostitute named Sadie Thompson  arrives, claiming she is waiting for employment upon a ship.
At the same time, 'moralists' arrive, including Mr. Davidson  and Mrs. Davidson .
The characters all end up staying in the same hotel, where the Davidsons plot to teach the natives about sin and Sadie entertains a bunch of marines.
Sadie begins to fall in love with Sergeant Timothy O'Hara , who isn’t fazed by her past.
He tells her that he has a best friend who married a former prostitute and the couple now lives happily in Australia.
Davidson sets about trying to 'redeem' Sadie, much to her disgust.
She doesn't see why she should have to answer to him above anyone else; finding himself self-important.
Davidson tricks her into telling him about her past in San Francisco and, once she refuses to repent, he declares that he will go to the Governor and have her deported.
Sadie is terrified of the idea but O'Hara assures her that it won't happen.
He tells her he wishes she would go to Australia and wait for his term of service to finish, after which they'll marry.
This they both agree upon.
Davidson gets his way, however, and Sadie is livid.
She and O'Hara go to plead with the Governor, begging him to let her go to Australia instead of back to San Francisco.
Once we find Davidson has also managed to get O'Hara punished for being immoral, we're told that Sadie will be able to go to Australia instead, but only if Davidson okays it.
Davidson refuses and Sadie pleads, but to no avail.
She eventually confesses that, if she goes back to San Francisco, there is 'a man there who won't let her go straight', which is what she wants to do.
Davidson figures out this means that there is a warrant for her arrest back in San Francisco.
Sadie claims that she was framed and is innocent, but it won't matter since, if she ends up in San Francisco, she'll have to go to prison nonetheless.
Davidson still refuses, saying she must atone for her past.
Sadie pleads and pleads and eventually offers to repent.
Davidson, however, says that her offer of repentance doesn’t matter and that the only way to fully repent is for her to go to prison.
Sadie runs to her room, crying out for Davidson.
Davidson returns and Sadie confesses she is afraid.
Davidson then tells her that, if she repents, there will be nothing to fear and he begins to pray with her.
Sadie converts to Christianity.
Three days later, we're told that Sadie has been praying the entire time.
She has put away her old things and has become a modest woman.
O'Hara returns and finds Davidson is gone, apparently 'trying to stop the locals from dancing on the beach'.
O'Hara tells Sadie that he has a fishing boat waiting to take her and her things to a ship, that will then take her to Australia, where they can marry and be free.
Sadie is extremely afraid and refuses to go, saying that 'old Sadie is dead' and she must go to San Francisco and prison, to repent.
She fully relies and believes in Davidson now.
O'Hara does everything he can, including forcibly taking her from the room, but Davidson is waiting outside.
O'Hara tries to attack him but Sadie asks him not to, so he doesn’t.
O'Hara, extremely upset, leaves and Sadie pleads with Davidson not to get him in trouble, for 'it was all her fault'.
She has become childlike and dependent on Davidson.
Later that night, Sadie is asleep and everyone else is heading to bed.
Davidson can not sleep and goes out for a walk in the rain.
His wife says he can’t sleep for 'the unpleasant dreams he’s been having about Miss Thompson'.
A fellow boarder suspects they aren’t 'all that unpleasant'.
Outside, Davidson is struggling with himself and realizes that he is sexually attracted to Sadie and unable to handle it.
He looks into her window and eventually is able to return inside to his room.
Sadie, frightened because she heard noises, is waiting in Davidson's room.
Davidson is shocked and sends her back to her room.
Here the last reel is missing but the rest of the film apparently included Davidson jumping into the ocean and killing himself, unable to handle his conflicted passions.
A fisherman finds his body.
Sadie and O'Hara reconcile and head for Australia.A new kid moves into town and is soon bullying little Jackie.
When the gang finds this out, they beat up on the kid, only to discover that his father is a cop.
Meanwhile, the police are after a criminal named Red Mike, and the gang mistakenly thinks they're the ones being chased.Fatty Finn  is the six-year-old leader of a gang of kids in Woolloomooloo.
They enter Fatty's pet goat Hector in the annual goat derby, but his rival Bruiser Murphy  lets the goat loose before the race.
After a series of adventures, Fatty finds the runaway goat and persuades a friendly aviator to fly him to the race-track in time for the main event.
{{cite news}}The plot concerns three characters who have lost hope in continuing their lives in Korea—Kokosu , an old man who has lost his farmland; Dong-min ; and Jong-hui , who had been betrayed by her boyfriend.
Kokosu had been a bugler in the Korean military during the last days of the Joseon Dynasty.
Seeking a better life in Manchuria, the three are attacked by bandits and the Japanese while attempting to cross the ice-covered Duman River which borders Korea and Manchuria.
With his last breath, Kokosu blows the army bugle he had carried with him all his life.
Dong-min takes the bugle and continues playing it.The action in Haunted Spooks centres around Harold's romantic problems.
It is set in the south "down the Mississippi and turn to the right".
The opening sequence has an uncle reading a telegram regarding a will It tells him that his niece Mildred will inherit the house and plantation as long as she lives there for a year with her husband.
He tells his wife that they must scare them out of the house.
A lawyer visits the niece to tell her of the will.
She tells him she isn't married and he says he can resolve the problem.
We then jump to Harold who is disappointed in love and vying for the attention of the Other Girl in rivalry with her other potential suitor.
They compete to be first to ask her father for her hand in marriage.
Harold wins but when he returns to the girl she is in the arms of yet a third man, so he gives up.
He then tries, with notable lack of success, to commit suicide.
Firstly using a gun he finds on a path, which turns out to be a water-pistol; then standing in front of a tram, which takes a sudden turn; then he ties a rock around his neck and jumps off a low bridge into a lake, but this fails as it is only inches deep; he then picks a second bridge, but lands in a boat; and finally stands in front of a car, which stops in time, but contains the lawyer from the earlier scene.
He takes Harold to Mildred and arranges their marriage.
They then drive off to the mansion, with some jokes en route: the gesticulating passengers in the car in front appear to be signalling right then left, preventing overtaking; the birds in the back seat pecking his head.
They reach the mansion and the uncle plays a series of tricks to make the house appear haunted.
A series of people appear in white sheets and covered in flour until the prank is uncovered.
In a more unusual prank a pair of trousers walk on their own, having a little black boy inside.
We see Harold's hair stand on end then fall.
The film ends with the couple asking one another what their name is and entering the bedroom together.The film presents an idealized image of the construction of the American first transcontinental railroad.
It culminates with the scene of driving of the golden spike at Promontory Summit on May 10, 1869.
There is a note in the title before this scene that the two original locomotives from 1869 event are used in the film, although this is false - both engines (Union Pacific No.
119 and [[ Jupiter  were scrapped before 1910.
Of course, a romantic story with love, treachery and revenge is also here.
Main stars were George O'Brien and Madge Bellamy.Lady Gwendolyn  is an heiress in love with a medical student, Donald , despite being bespoken to foreign prince Carlos .Margaret Selfridge  lives with her affluent father, Simon  and her Aunt Abigail  in a mansion in New York City.
She is involved in a romantic relationship with Garry Homes , an honest man from a modest background.
Simon actively opposes the relationship, believing Garry to be a gold-digger.
Seeking to defuse the situation, he sends Margaret away to the countryside.
She returns months later with an infant in tow, and reveals that she has been married to Garry all along.
Even when Simon learns of the marriage and meets his grandchild, he refuses to accept the situation and bars Garry from the premises.
Garry sneaks into the Selfridge house in the middle of the night; he and Margaret plan to run away together with their baby.
However, before Garry can leave the house, Simon summons a police officer and has him arrested as a burglar.
Three and a half years later, Simon's household is in turmoil.
Margaret does not know of Garry's prison term and believes he has simply vanished.
This belief leaves her so severely depressed that she is constantly ill in bed.
She deeply resents her father for driving Garry away.
Margaret's daughter, Peggy  is now four years old.
She is pampered with material possessions and a nanny, but is estranged from her grandfather.
Peggy's mother loves her, but due to her fragile mental state, is not permitted to spend much time with her.
Seeking adventure, Peggy frequently escapes from her nursery and runs away.
Garry is released from prison after serving his burglary sentence.
Friendless and down on his luck, he lives in a flophouse with a dog he rescues from a dog catcher's truck.
While walking through the city one day, Garry discovers Peggy crying outside a fruit stand, lost and alone.
He quickly becomes fond of her, but he does not recognize her as his daughter, and takes her to the police station.
The police call the Selfridges, but Garry leaves before they arrive to claim Peggy.
He does however leave his dog behind to watch over Peggy; she becomes immediately attached to him and insists on adopting him.
Another ex-convict engages Garry to help him commit a burglary.
He is reluctant to participate, but finally decides that the money will help him get back on his feet.
The Selfridge family decamps to their mansion in Westchester for the summer.
One evening, Peggy asks if she can borrow her mother's most cherished possession: her wedding ring, which she wears on a chain around her neck.
Margaret agrees, and Peggy happily wears the necklace to bed.
That night, Peggy is woken by noise in the house.
She investigates and discovers Garry in the study as he is in the process of robbing the safe.
She tells him he cannot steal her grandfather's jewels, and offers him Margaret's necklace in exchange.
Garry immediately recognizes the ring on the necklace, and realizes that Peggy must be his daughter.
Before he has a chance to explain the situation, Simon Selfridge returns home.
He does not recognize Garry and shoots him, believing him to be an intruder.
Simon calls a doctor, and Garry eventually recovers from his injury.
Simon finally reconciles with his daughter and welcomes Garry to their home.
The film concludes with the entire Selfridge clan, Garry included, living as a happy family.Arthur Wyat, an American railroad conductor, is lost in the jungle of the Amazon in South America.
He is rescued by Chela, the beautiful princess of an Indian tribe.The Duke of Chartres is in love with Princess Henriette, but she seemingly wants nothing to do with him.
Eventually he grows tired of her insults and flees to England when Louis XV insists that the two marry.
He goes undercover as Monsieur Beaucaire, the barber of the French Ambassador, and finds that he enjoys the freedom of a commoner’s life.
After catching the Duke of Winterset cheating at cards, he forces him to introduce him as a nobleman to Lady Mary, with whom he has become infatuated.
When Lady Mary is led to believe that the Duke of Chartres is merely a barber she loses interest in him.
She eventually learns that he is a nobleman after all and tries to win him back, but the Duke of Chartres opts to return to France and Princess Henriette who now returns his affection.Jacqueline Floriot  is thrown out into the street without any money by her jealous husband Louis  when he discovers she has been carrying on an affair.
She is not even allowed to see their four-year-old son.
She sinks into depravity.
Twenty years later, she has become the mistress of Laroque.
When he finds out that her husband is now the Attorney General, Laroque decides to blackmail him.
Desperate to shield her son from her disgrace, she shoots and kills her lover.
By chance, the lawyer assigned to her turns out to be her own son, on his first case.
He is puzzled and frustrated when she refuses to defend herself in court.
During the trial, her husband shows up in support of his son.
When she sees that he recognizes her and is about to speak out, she makes an impassioned plea, not for mercy but for understanding of what drove her to murder.
As she had intended, the hidden message silences Louis.
When Jacqueline faints from the strain, she is carried into a private chamber.
There, she kisses her still-unaware son and dies.Apache dancer Gaby  defies the Prefect of Police  after accosting millionaire Grover .
The underlying truth is that Gaby was driven to theft of rich men by her partner Antoine .Velma is a good little rich girl whose indomitable uncle orders her to wed Lord Tancred, a man she has never met.
The same day, she becomes infatuated by a man she meets on the street, not knowing that it is Lord Tancred.
When she finds out about his true identity, she becomes convinced he wants to marry her for monetary reasons.
She feels betrayed and refuses to speek to him, until she makes an unusual discovery.Review summary The New York TimesThe film follows the saxophone player Clyde, who busks on the San Francisco Bay waterfront.
One night, he meets Flowers, and teaches her to dance, but finds that "Blackjack" , the leader of a ruthless gang, is also in love with her.
Despite the intense turf war between "Blackjack" and a rival gangster named Mike Luego ([[Walter Long , "Blackjack" wins the heart of Flowers and marries her, but without consummating the marriage.A Southern belle  must work in a gambling house to pay off her father's debts, which drove him to suicide.
She then meets a man who takes her away from it all.The film starts with the loading of a ship called the Merry Maiden.
Oliver is first mate on the ship and described as "a bully, the nastiest crew member, after the captain of course".
He features a beard and a mustache, rather than his usual solitary mustache.
Stan plays Willie Brisling a guy who is engaged to Nelly and they are in love.
The captain leaves his ship, he sees Nelly and decides he wants her.
Stan has a tattoo of a ship on his chest and shows it to the captain.
The captain pours a jug of water down Stan's sweater and abducts Nelly.
The captain takes Nelly to his ship and Stan sneaks on board to rescue her.
Oliver starts to look for Stan.
Stan decides to save Nelly his last hope is to get rid of the crew, one by one.
Stan disguises himself as a loose woman.
The crew begin to fall for his charms.
Stan calls one of the crewmen over, he hits the crewman with a cosh and knocks him out.
Then he throws the cosh at Oliver, who thinks the crewman threw the cosh.
Oliver throws the crewman overboard, this is repeated until all of the crew are in the sea.
Nelly is being harassed by the captain.
The captain's wife appears at the ship.
The Captain takes a fancy to Stan.
The wife appears as Stan is sat in the captain's lap.
The captain's wife takes a gun and goes to shoot her husband.
Stan stops her and takes off his wig.
Stan says "this was a test to see if you really love your husband".
The captain and wife begin to make up.
But then the captain indicates he's going to "deal with Stan later".
Stan is peeved, he opens the door and Nelly appears.
Stan indicates the captain has been up to no good with Nelly and that four other loose women have already gone.
The captain's wife is furious, Stan gives her the gun back.
Stan and Nelly leave.
There is a gunshot in the room.
The wife, still angry, sees Stan and Nelly through a porthole and shoots them.
Stan and Nelly's clothes fall off revealing their underwear.
The film centres around a Will-they won't-they romance.
Wealthy Jack Cromwell from Long Island runs off to New York City on account of his fiancee's relentless flirting.
He attends an Independence Day block party where Molly Carr, from Yorkville, Manhattan, falls in love with him.
Comic relief is provided by grocer Eric Swenson , above whose shop Molly and her flatmate, Bea Nichols , live.The Times, 30 December 1929, New Gallery Cinema "Sunny Side Up" Gaynor performs a charming singing and dancing version of the song "Sunny Side Up" for a crowd of her neighbors, complete with top hat and cane.
Later in the film, a lavish pre-Code dance sequence for the song "Turn on the Heat," including scantily clad and gyrating island women enticing bananas on trees to abruptly grow and stiffen, with the graphic metaphor lost on no one, occurs without Gaynor's participation.
Gaynor and Farrell made almost a dozen films together, including Frank Borzage's classics Seventh Heaven , Street Angel , and Lucky Star .
Gaynor won the first Academy Award for Best Actress for the first two and F. W. Murnau's Sunrise.The story is about a clerk who is given $10,000 to deposit at the bank, but the bank is closed for the night so he tries to get to the bank president's house with the money.In 1876, a young trader named Tom Doan ([[Jack Holt  arrives at Sprague's Trading Post where a group of buffalo hunters has assembled.
Fresh from his Kansas farm, Tom meets and falls in love with Milly Fayre ([[Lois Wilson , the stepdaughter of Randall Jett .
Unknown to Tom, Randall is the leader of a gang of notorious outlaws who make a brutal living robbing buffalo hunters.
After Milly and Tom are separated, an Indian uprising occurs, sparked by the irresponsible slaughtering of the buffalo herds by white adventurers.
Jett is killed by his own men, but Milly is able to escape.
Attempting to make her way back to civilization, Milly is pursued by a band of hostile Indians and falls in front of a herd of stampeding buffalo.
Tom rides in and rescues her just in time.
The Indians are subdued by the buffalo hunters, and Tom and Milly head back to civilization.Oliver's mother, a penniless outcast, died giving birth to him.
As a young boy Oliver is brought up in a workhouse, later apprenticed to an uncaring undertaker, and eventually is taken in by a gang of thieves who befriend him for their own purposes.
All the while, there are secrets from Oliver's family history waiting to come to light.
Young Peggy Pepper  wants to be in motion pictures, so her father  drives them both across the country from their home in Georgia to Hollywood.
After some initial disillusionment, she meets Billy Boone  in a studio commissary and he tells her to show up at his set if she wants work.
Peggy goes, gets sprayed with seltzer water at her first entrance, and is at first shocked and dismayed to find she is doing slapstick comedy in low-budget "Comet" productions, but she decides to "take it on the chin" and, with Billy's loving support, becomes a success.
Soon enough, Peggy is signed to a contract by the prestigious "High Art" studio and, as "Patricia Pepoire", becomes a real movie star.
She has fulfilled her dream of playing serious, dramatic roles, but she cuts off contact with Billy and the old comedy troupe, and soon becomes so conceited that her boring performances begin to drive away her public.
Fortunately, on the day of her marriage to her co-star, phony-count Andre Telefair , Billy bursts in and, by means of another shpritz of seltzer in her face, as well as a custard pie in Andre's, brings her to her senses, rescuing her career and both of their happiness.Goga Palkin is a theatre check-taker in love with an undiscovered actress named Dusya.
She has a crush on Douglas Fairbanks and only wants to date someone famous like a Hollywood star.
After a chance meeting and a kiss from Mary Pickford, Goga becomes a local celebrity, and a lot of girls chase him through the streets.
The popularity of her admirer makes Dusya jealous, and she falls for him.Paul Bergot  is a Belgian immigrant to the United States who has fallen in love with Mary Brown , a blind woman.
They met as pen-pals when he was fighting in Europe during World War I. Mary even sent Paul a photo of her.
Paul searches for Mary Brown by asking every woman he meets if she is Mary Brown.
By accident he rescues her town from crooks and bootleggers.Discovering that her husband is a bigamist, Nan  returns with her child to her Puget Sound logging town.
She is treated as an outcast by all save Donald , her childhood sweetheart who happens to be the son of a millionaire.
Their romance is thwarted by his parents, but after she nurses him to recovery from an apparently fatal illness they are married.
The subsequent arrival of a son prompts a family reconciliation.The Cocoanuts is set in the Hotel de Cocoanut, a resort hotel, during the Florida land boom of the 1920s.
Mr. Hammer  runs the place, assisted by Jamison , who would rather sleep at the front desk than actually help him run it.
Chico and Harpo arrive with empty luggage, which they plan to fill by robbing and conning the guests.
Mrs. Potter  is one of the few paying customers.
Her daughter Polly  is in love with struggling young architect Bob Adams .
He works to support himself as a clerk at the hotel, but has plans for the development of the entire area.
Mrs. Potter wants her daughter to marry Harvey Yates , whom she believes to be of higher social standing than the clerk.
This suitor is actually a con man out to steal the dowager's diamond necklace with the help of his conniving partner Penelope .A ship captain gets ahold of half of a map leading to a treasure buried on an island in the South Seas.
The ruler of the island, a beautiful princess, has the other half of the map, and the two join forces to battle a gang of pirates and a group of islanders who don't want anyone to get the treasure.When St. Elmo Thornton catches his fiancée Agnes in the arms of his best friend Murray Hammond, he shoots Hammond and decides to travel around the world in hopes of forgetting women.
Upon returning, he meets Edna, the blacksmith's daughter who is living with his minister.
In the end, St. Elmo becomes a minister and marries Edna.
{{cite web}}Vladimir Dubrovsky , a Cossack serving in the Russian army, comes to the notice of the Czarina  when he rescues Mascha , a beautiful young lady, and her aunt trapped in a runaway stagecoach.
He is delighted when the Czarina offers to make him a general but horrified when she tries to seduce him.
He flees and the Czarina puts a price on his head.
Soon afterwards he receives a letter from his father informing him that the evil nobleman Kyrilla Troekouroff  has taken over his lands and is terrorizing the countryside.
Hurrying home, Vladimir learns that his father has died.
Vowing to avenge his father and help the victimized peasantry, he adopts a black mask and becomes the Black Eagle, a Robin Hood figure.
Discovering that Kyrilla is Mascha's father, he takes the place of a tutor who has been sent for from France, but not previously seen by anyone in the household.
Vladimir is thus able to become part of Kyrilla's household.
As Vladimir's love for Mascha grows, he becomes more and more reluctant to continue seeking revenge against her father, and the two eventually flee the Troekouroff estate.
Vladimir is captured by the Czarina's men, but the Czarina, once determined to have him executed, has a last minute change of heart, and she allows Vladimir, given a new French name, and Mascha to leave Russia for Paris.After losing a court case to Mickey, Stinkie Davis has to let Mickey and the Scorpions put on a show in his mother's parlor.The plot of the film centers around Eddie , a young kid from upstate New York who is conned into fronting for a speakeasy on Broadway.
There is a chorus-girl with a heart of gold , a cop-killing gangster boss, Hawk Miller  and his downtrodden ex-girlfriend .
With the cops closing in on him, Hawk needs a fall guy.
Planting contraband in poor Eddie's shop, the gang leader then instructs his henchmen to "take him for a ride" But Eddie escapes his "ride," and there is a final confrontation.
Just as all hope seems lost, Hawk is killed by persons unknown.
The murder weapon, however, belongs to the chorus girl and she is about to be arrested by Detective Crosby , when the real murderer—Miller's downtrodden ex-girlfriend—gives herself up.A wild, wealthy woman is brought to heel by a sermonizing district attorney after she accidentally hits and kills a motorcycle cop.The gang's teacher  is trying to win a trip to Europe.
He does win, but the gang accompanies him as well, which causes his trip to become a nightmare.
The group treks through Venice, Rome, Pompeii, Naples, and London.
Finally, the entourage ends up in Paris, where Farina manages to falls off the side of the Eiffel Tower.
Finlayson tries desperately tries to rescue Farina, leading him to wake up from what was apparently a daydream caused by the gang tossing sleeping pills into his water.Comedy about a small-town girl unhappy with her family, and a boy trying to please her by throwing a big party.Jamil  is a soldier in the Bedouin defence forces during a war between Syria and Turkey, who has deserted his regiment.
In a remote village, he encounters an orphan asylum run by American missionaries Dr. Hilbert  and his daughter Mary .
The village is attacked by the Turks, and its ruler, eager to placate the invaders, intends to hand over the children for slaughter; he disguises his intents under a move to Damascus for their safety.
The Bedouins arrive at the scene, and reveal that Jamil is the son of the tribal leader.
With his father's revealed death, Jamil's he becomes the new leader of the tribe, which endows him with a sense of responsibility.
Risking his own life, he proceeds to save the children, defeating the Turks and the local leader in the process .
In a decaying mansion overlooking the Hudson River, millionaire Cyrus West approaches death.
His greedy family descends upon him like "cats around a canary", causing him to become insane.
West orders that his last will and testament remain locked in a safe and go unread until the 20th anniversary of his death.
As the appointed time arrives, West's lawyer, Roger Crosby , discovers that a second will mysteriously appeared in the safe.
The second will may only be opened if the terms of the first will are not fulfilled.
The caretaker of the West mansion, Mammy Pleasant , blames the manifestation of the second will on the ghost of Cyrus West, a notion that the astonished Crosby quickly rejects.
While the family prepares for dinner, a guard  barges in and announces that an escaped lunatic called the Cat is either in the house or on the grounds.
The guard tells Cecily, "He's a maniac who thinks he's a cat, and tears his victims like they were canaries!"
Meanwhile, Crosby suspects someone in the family might try to harm Annabelle and decides to inform her of her successor.
Before he speaks the person's name, a hairy hand with long nails emerges from a secret passage in a bookshelf and pulls him in, terrifying Annabelle.
When she explains what happened to Crosby, the family immediately concludes that she is insane.The story is set in the early 18th century when many farmers in the Habsburg monarchy were obligated to work in a nobleman’s fields for two days a week.
The location is the Kingdom of Hungary’s north-western Carpathians with a Slovak majority population.
Juraj Jánošík ([[Theodor Pištěk , a young, imposing seminary student, returns to his home village to find that his ailing mother has just died.
Count Šándor , however, would not release Jánošík’s father  from his weekly obligations for her funeral and has the father caned, which proves fatal for the old man.
Jánošík assaults the Count and escapes from the village.
While on the run, Jánošík finds himself fighting on the side of a band of highwaymen in a skirmish with the Count’s cohort commanded by Pišta , discards the frock, joins the band, and takes over the band's leadership.
Jánošík’s band parties in the mountains, robs traveling noblemen, and uses disguise to rob the guests at the noblemen's County Ball only to redistribute the booty among the farmers.
Jánošík rekindles a love affair with his childhood sweetheart Anička , who is sexually harassed by the Count.
The local priest  helps Jánošík with the cover-up during his visits to the village.
However, his frequent calls and yet another scuffle with the Count prove to be his undoing.
With the help of a betrayer, the Count's men learn about Jánošík's whereabouts and overpower him and his band during a drinking party in a tavern.
Jánošík is hanged.
The central narrative is framed in a story set around the time of the film’s release, in which a hiker  and friends  pause at a mountain sheepfold where the head shepherd comments on the hiker’s stature similar to the legendary Jánošík’s and narrates for them the film’s storyline.Handsome sailor Felipe  and nasty Governor Don Fernando  are rivals for the favors of Spanish dancer Valencia .
When Felipe deserts his ship, Don Fernando throws him in prison, but Valencia obtains his release and shares his disgrace and exile.Amanda Afflick  is a poor laundry woman working in London springtime.
She is too weak to do the hard work, but is always picked and humiliated by her boss Madame Didier  because of her always accidentally getting in trouble.
Amanda is desperately in love with the handsome customer Horace Greensmith , but all of her colleagues don't think she stands a chance in being his sweetheart.
One afternoon, Amanda gets in trouble again and is forced to work all night long.
All alone, Amanda fantasizes about her first and only meeting with Horace, eight months ago.
All the fellow employees ridicule her for her still having faith Horace will return someday to pick up his clothes.
Amanda is fed up with all her colleagues making fun of her and lies she is a duchess, coming from a wealthy family.
She comes up with a story of her having an affair with Horace.
Her father found out and send her to live in London.
Meanwhile, fellow co-worker Benjamin Jones ([[Harold Goodwin  has the job of collecting coach with his stage coach.
One day, his beloved horse Lavender is too weak to go up a hill and falls.
The coach is destroyed and when Benjamin admits the truth to Madame Didier, she demands for the horse to be killed.
Benjamin reveals to Amanda what will happen with Lavender and she tries to stop the horse from being killed.
She eventually buys the horse and takes it into her own home.
Angela, however, isn't allowed to take the horse into her own apartment and is noticed on the streets by the wealthy and sympathizing Lady Burke-Cavendish.
She offers her to take the horse to live at her country place.
Angela is delighted and accepts her offer.
Later, Lady Burke-Cavendish stops by to tell Angela the horse is doing very well.
Angela lies to the fellow laundry women Lady Burke-Cavendish is actually her aunt.
They are interrupted by Horace, he has returned for his laundry.
The fellow workes assume he will recognize Amanda, since they were lied to he is her secret lover.
Amanda is desperate and successfully pretends to be reunited with him.
Horace is confused and wants to leave.
After the laundry women is away, she tells the truth to Horace.
Benjamin walks in on them, initially trying to flirt with Angela.
However, when he notices Horace's presence, he leaves.
Meanwhile, Horace sympathizes with Angela and invites her to his mansion.
He changes his mind, though, when he becomes ashamed of her.
Angela notices this and pulls back.
Horace leaves and Angela is left behind with a broken heart.
She is later hired as Lady Burke-Cavendish's personal maid and now lives in wealth.
She finds out Horace is a worker at the country place and they now fall in love with each other.Chaplin plays a laborer on a house construction site.
When he gets paid, his wife wants all of the money, but he manages to keep enough of it to go out drinking.
He returns home just in time to pretend he has just woken up to go to work.The travelling theatre troupe's worst actress, Violet  dreams of all she could be if she only had the right opportunities.
Jimmy  is a runaway bank clerk who joins the troupe as a lead actor.Jason Robards Sr.  and George Fawcett  play a father-and-son team of cons, who gamble their firm’s assets.
Emerson Jr. is caught investing money that doesn't belong to him and is indicted on a swindling charge.
The plot gets spicy when the District Attorney handling the case is his former sweetheart, Catherine Darwin's husband.
This situation gives the DA an opportunity to prosecute his romantic rival.This curious picture is a cross between fantasy and science fiction  and features Broadway actors Grant Mitchell and Margaret Irving in their motion picture debuts.
Arthur Wyman  is the typical absent-minded scientist.
He is in love with Mary Langdon , the daughter of his landlady .
To help her out, he invents an alarm clock that doesn't tick .
Using the money he has earned writing an article, Wyman tries to put the finishing touches on a radio that will contact Mars.
He falls asleep as he's tinkering with it and dreams that he has gotten in touch with the Martians.
They give him a lot of valuable information—he learns a special way to make diamonds from coal, fashion gold from clay, and create steel that weighs "less than nothing."
What he learns makes him fabulously wealthy—until, much to his disappointment, he wakes up.
But then Mary arrives and tells him that the rights to the "tickless" alarm clock have been sold for a lot of money, so things work out after all.Dolly "Angel Face" Morgan is a parolee out to fleece any wealthy man who is taken in by her looks.
She is recognized by two fellow con artists, Gwen and Brad.
Since she needs some help, she allows them to help "pull a job," shaking down a wealthy man for $10,000 after her outraged "husband"  breaks in and finds them in a compromising situation.
But when Gwen and Brad try to cheat Dolly out of her share, by claiming that their victim stopped payment on his check, no money to split, Dolly takes all of the money and makes a quick getaway.
Brad, outraged, vows that she has made the worst mistake of her life.
Soon after, Dolly meets a young man named Steve Crandall in Atlantic City for a cement convention.
Believing that he is a wealthy plantation owner, she flirts with him.
When he proposes they get married that very night, Dolly is shocked, but accepts.
She is packing to leave with Steve when Brad shows up, demanding his share of the $10,000.
Once again, Dolly uses her wits to make a quick getaway.
Dolly and Steve take the train south to his home town.
There Dolly is rudely surprised to discover that Steve is far from rich, nor does he own a plantation .
He is certain his invention, Enduro cement, will make his fortune, but his new wife is not so sure.
Dolly has grown fond of Steve, but tells him how disappointed she is.
That evening, she boards a train for New York.
The next morning, however, Steve returns to his room to find Dolly curled up in a chair.
She is in love with him and has decided to reform, though she keeps her past a secret.
Brad and Gwen track her down, certain she has landed yet another rich sucker.
They are surprised to find her living in modest circumstances.
Dolly tells them that she has fallen for a poor man, but they do not believe her.
To get rid of them, she gives them the $10,000.
However, Steve receives a telegram informing him that a company has bought his cement formula for $100,000.
Overjoyed, he rushes home and tells Dolly, his mother, and "cousin" Brad and Gwen.
Brad and Gwen blackmail Dolly into a scheme to part Steve from his new-found riches.
Brad offers to put Steve and Dolly up at his suite when they have to go to New York.
Just as Steve is about to sign Brad's contract, Dolly cannot take it anymore.
She telephones the police, then tells Steve that the contract is nothing but a scam; she then confesses to Steve that she herself is a crook and that she only married him in order to fleece him of his fortune.
Steve is devastated.
The cops show up and take her away.
Steve begs Dolly to eventually come back to him, but she says no, that he would be better off without her.
Dolly is taken to prison.
Steve, however, manages to get the warden to parole her into his custody.On New Year's Eve, the dying Salvation Army girl Edit has one last wish: to speak with David Holm.
David, an alcoholic, is sitting in a graveyard with two drinking buddies, talking about his old friend Georges who told him about Death's carriage—the legend that the last person to die each year has to work under the "strict master" Death and collect the souls of everybody who dies the following year.
Georges himself died on New Year's Eve last year.
Gustafsson, a friend of Edit who is looking for David, finds him and tries to convince him to go and see her, but David refuses.
When his friends too try to convince him, a fight breaks out where David is accidentally killed just before the clock strikes twelve.
The carriage appears, and the driver is revealed as Georges.
As David’s soul steps out of his body, Georges reminds him of what he once had, how he once lived a happy family life with his wife Anna before ending up in bad company with Georges and the other drinkers.
It is revealed how Anna left him after he was jailed for intoxication.
He also reminds him how David exactly one year ago was taken care of by Edit, and while treating her badly, he gave her his promise to find her the following year so she would find out whether her prayers for him had worked or not.
Georges informs David that the promise has to be fulfilled and brings him in the carriage to Edit’s house.
In another flashback it is shown how Edit once found David in a bar with his friend Gustafsson.
Edit persuaded them to go to a Salvation Army meeting.
At the meeting, Gustafsson submitted himself to God, but David stayed cynical.
Present at the meeting was also David's wife.
Edit tried to bring the couple together again.
At first they were optimistic, but soon David's drinking drove them into despair.
One night David became aggressive when Anna tried to protect their children from being infected by David's tuberculosis.
He was locked in the kitchen, but broke through the door with an axe.
When the driver arrives in Edit's room, she begs him to let her live until she sees David again.
She thinks she is the one to blame for his guilt, as she brought the couple together again.
When David hears this he is moved.
He kisses her hands, and when Edit sees his regret she can die in peace.
Georges then takes David to Anna, who is planning to kill herself and their children.
David begs Georges and God to let him interfere.
Georges allows him to return to life.
David and Anna embrace each other and cry.Children of a widower who is having an affair with a salesgirl try to break it up but are won over by the girl.French General Birabeau has been sent to Morocco to root out and destroy the Riffs, a band of Arab rebels, who threaten the safety of the French outpost in the Moroccan desert.
Their dashing, daredevil leader is the mysterious "Red Shadow".
Margot Bonvalet, a lovely, sassy French girl, is soon to be married at the fort to Birabeau's right-hand man, Captain Fontaine.
Birabeau's son Pierre, in reality the Red Shadow, loves Margot, but pretends to be a milksop to preserve his secret identity.
Margot tells Pierre that she secretly yearns to be swept into the arms of some bold, dashing sheik, perhaps even the Red Shadow himself.
Pierre, as the Red Shadow, kidnaps Margot and declares his love for her.
To her surprise, Margot's mysterious abductor treats her with every Western consideration.
When the Red Shadow comes face to face with General Birabeau, the old man challenges the rebel leader to a duel.
Of course Pierre will not kill his own father, so he refuses to fight, losing the respect of the Riffs.
Azuri, the sinuous and secretive native dancing girl, might be persuaded to answer some of these riddles if only she can be persuaded by Captain Fontaine.
Meanwhile, two other characters, Benny  and Susan provide comic relief.
Eventually, the Red Shadow's identity is discovered, a deal is struck with the Riffs, and Pierre and Margot live happily ever after.Colleen Lapidowitz  falls in love with an Irish police officer named Patrick Sweeney , which is a relief to her Jewish father Isaac  and Irish mother Bridget  who have tried to discourage her interest in a sleazy lounge lizard named Stuart Gold .Captain Robert Kelly  while attached to the American Embassy in Peking at the time of the Boxer Rebellion befriends Lady Patricia Rutledge  and rescues her from the priests of a Chinese temple that she has gone to visit.
He then asks a friend to escort her to safety and battles the Chinese in order to give them time to escape.
Eventually he brings news or the approach of the allies to the barricade.Motion Picture News, 28 Apr 1928, pg.1348A wealthy man dresses up as Napoleon for a fancy dress ball, but is instead detained in a lunatic asylum where they suspect him of having delusions of grandeur.BFI Database entryA young unknown  comes to Hollywood to become an actress, and brings her grandfather .
At the end of the first day, she has not found work, but her grandfather has.Mickey is introduced riding on a rhea instead of a horse as would be expected .
He soon reaches local bar and restaurant Cantina Argentina.
He enters the establishment with the apparent intent to relax with some drinking and smoking.
Already present are resident barmaid and dancer Minnie Mouse and a fellow customer.
The latter is Black Pete and is soon introduced as a wanted outlaw.
Pete had already been established as an antagonist in both the Alice Comedies and the Oswald the Lucky Rabbit series.
However this short marks his first encounter with either Mickey or Minnie.
The latter pair also appear unfamiliar to each other.
The short apparently depicts their initial encounter.
Minnie performs the tango and salsa and both customers start flirting with her.
Pete then attempts to put an early ending to their emerging rivalry by proceeding in kidnapping her.
He escapes on his horse while Mickey gives chase on his rhea and soon catches up to his rival.
Pete and Mickey then proceed in challenging each other to a sword duel.
The latter emerges the victor and finally gets hold of the Minnie.
The finale has Mickey and Minnie riding the rhea into the distance.Peter Ibbetson  is an orphan raised by his uncle, Colonel Ibbetson.
When the Colonel insults his dead mother, Peter attacks him and is ordered from the house.
Then the young man runs into his childhood sweetheart, Mimsi , and their romantic feelings are rekindled.
Unfortunately, Mimsi has married, but they carry on a love affair in their dreams.
Their dream-affair continues over the years, even after Peter kills her husband, the Duke of Towers, and gets a life prison sentence.
:The scenario presented is based on the general release version of 1925, which has additional scenes and sequences in different order than the existing reissue print .
The film opens with the debut of the new season at the Paris Opera House, with a production of Gounod's Faust.
Comte Philippe de Chagny  and his brother, the Vicomte Raoul de Chagny  are in attendance.
Raoul attends only in the hope of hearing his sweetheart Christine Daae  sing.
Christine, secretly under the tuition The Phantom, has made a sudden rise from the chorus to understudy of the prima donna.
Raoul wishes for Christine to resign and marry him, but she refuses to let their relationship get in the way of her career.
The Phantom demands that Christine be placed in the lead role for the next opera.
At the height of the most prosperous season in the Opera's history, the management suddenly resign.
As they leave, they tell the new managers of the Opera Ghost, a phantom who asks for opera box #5, among other things.
The new managers laugh it off as a joke, but the old management leaves troubled.
The managers go to Box 5 to see exactly who has taken it.
The keeper of the box does not know who it is, as she has never seen his face.
The two managers enter the box and are startled to see a shadowy figure seated.
They run out of the box and compose themselves, but when they enter the box again, the person is gone.
After the performance, the ballet girls are disturbed by the sight of a mysterious man , who dwells in the cellars.
Arguing whether or not he is the Phantom, they decide to ask Joseph Buquet, a stagehand who has actually seen the ghost's face.
Buquet describes a ghastly sight of a living skeleton to the girls, who are then startled by a shadow cast on the wall.
The antics of stagehand Florine Papillon  do not amuse Joseph's brother, Simon , who chases him off.
Meanwhile, Mme.
Carlotta , the prima donna of the Paris Grand Opera, barges into the managers office enraged.
She has received a letter from "The Phantom," demanding that Christine sing the role of Marguerite the following night, threatening dire consequences if his demands are not met.
In her next performance, Christine reaches her triumph during the finale and receives a standing ovation from the audience.
When Raoul visits her in her dressing room, she pretends not to recognize him, because unbeknownst to the rest there, The Phantom is also there.
Raoul spends the evening outside her door, and after the others have left, just as he is about to enter, he hears The Phantom's voice within the room.
He overhears the voice make his intentions to Christine: "Soon, Christine, this spirit will take form and will demand your love!"
When Christine leaves her room alone, Raoul breaks in to find it empty.
Carlotta receives another discordant note from the Phantom.
Once again, it demands that she take ill and let Christine have her part.
The managers also get a note, reiterating that if Christine does not sing, they will present "Faust" in a house with a curse on it.
The following evening, despite the Phantom's warnings, a defiant Carlotta appears as Marguerite.
At first, the performance goes well, but soon the Phantom's curse takes its effect, causing the great, crystal chandelier to fall down onto the audience.
Christine runs to her dressing room and is entranced by a mysterious voice through a secret door behind the mirror, descending, in a dream-like sequence, semi-conscious on horseback by a winding staircase into the lower depths of the Opera.
She is then taken by gondola over a subterranean lake by the masked Phantom into his lair.
The Phantom introduces himself as Erik and declares his love; Christine faints, so Erik carries her to a suite fabricated for her comfort.
The next day, when she awakens, she finds a note from Erik telling her that she is free to come and go as she pleases, but that she must never look behind his mask.
In the next room, the Phantom is playing his composition, "Don Juan Triumphant."
Christine's curiosity gets the better of her, and she sneaks up behind the Phantom and tears off his mask, revealing his hideously deformed face.
Enraged, the Phantom makes his plans to hold her prisoner known.
In an attempt to plead to him, he excuses her to visit her world one last time, with the condition that she never sees her lover again.
Released from the underground dungeon, Christine makes a rendezvous at the annual masked-ball, which is graced with the Phantom in the guise of the 'Red-Death' from the Edgar Allan Poe novel of the same name.
While on the roof, Christine tells Raoul everything.
However, an unseen jealous Phantom perching on the statue of Apollo overhears them.
Raoul and Inspector Ledoux  are then lured into the Phantom's underground death-trap when Christine is kidnapped while onstage.
Philippe is drowned by Erik when he goes looking for Raoul in the cellars of the Opera.
The Phantom gives Christine a choice of two levers: one shaped like a scorpion and the other like a grasshopper.
One of them will save Raoul, while the other will blow up the Opera.
Christine picks the scorpion, but it is a trick by the Phantom to "save" Raoul and Ledoux from being blown up &mdash; by drowning them.
Christine begs the Phantom to save Raoul, promising him anything in return.
At the last second, the Phantom opens a trapdoor in his floor through which Raoul and Ledoux are saved.
The Phantom attempts to flee with Christine in a stolen carriage.
While Raoul saves Christine, Erik/Phantom is pursued and killed by a mob, who throw him into the Seine River to finally drown.
In the original 1925 version, there was a short scene showing Christine and Raoul on a honeymoon.
An alternate ending features the Phantom letting Christine and Raoul go after realizing that Christine truly loves Raoul and not him.
Christine gives the Phantom her ring, then departs with Raoul.
The Phantom shrieks in pain and falls over dead, of a broken heart.Zander  is a boy searching for his missing father.
Mamie  takes him out West, where a substitute father is found in a bootlegger who rescues them from bandits.It's time for Mickey and the kids to go back to school.
During a game of tug-of-war against Stinkie Davis and his pals, the kids accidentally start a fire in the school.The Sick-Little-Well-Girl  has been wrapped in cotton wool all her life.
At the sign of the slightest sniffle or cough, she is packed off to bed and each time, the stuffy  Dr Ludwig von Saulsbourg  is called to attend to her.
In another town lives Doctor Jackson , a friendly and altruistic doctor who is liked by everyone in town.
He utilises common sense when curing the citizens of any ills.
Soon, Doctor Jack discovers that von Saulsbourg has been playing on The Sick-Little-Well-Girl's non-illness, charging the girl's father exorbitant amounts of money to "treat" her.
With Jack's intervention, von Saulsbourg is sent packing.Stinkie Davis invites Mickey and the Scorpions to his rodeo.
His invitation is actually a ploy to prank McGuire and his pals.
However, things don't exactly go as planned for Stinkie.
The kids partake in various picnic games, and Hambone gets into a headbutting contest with a goat.William Tudor has a huge debt and is forced to give up his family castle.
He sells it to war millionaire John Kershaw and goes to London to visit his granddaughter Irene.
Meanwhile, Tudor's nephew and Irene's sweetheart Owen travels to South Africa to oversee his father's mines.
Irene becomes a chorus girl at the Gaiety Theatre.
Here, John's son Christopher Kershaw falls in love with her.
She doesn't want to have anything to do with him, but becomes desperate after her father gets ill. She gets the message Owen has been killed in the war and agrees to marry Christopher.
Right after the marriage, an alive Owen shows up at the castle.
Meanwhile, a huge chandelier crashes down on Christopher's head.
He is now killed, which makes Irene and Owen able to reunite.
Owen buys the castle back from John and Irene's grandfather comes back to his home.New York Times OverviewHubert Culverdale  is the hard-up and hard-to-please milord who marries luscious Vanessa Levy  for financial reasons only.A lethargic Farina lounges about, waited upon by his girlfriend Trellis and half-minding his baby brother.
Meanwhile, the rest of the gang are preparing their younger brothers and sisters for entry in a baby contest - including Joe's unsubtle attempt to pass off eleven-year-old Chubby as an infant.
When Farina learns about the contest, he slowly begins bathing and dressing his younger brother, only to learn from Joe on the way to the contest that whole thing was actually over a month ago.The film is set up as a series of humorous tricks on the audience, with constant doubling, and in which things are rarely what they at first seem to be.
It opens with Keaton attending a variety show.
In this first sequence, Keaton plays beside him and remarks, "This fellow Keaton seems to be the whole show."
This was a gibe at one of Keaton's contemporaries, Thomas Ince, who credited himself generously in his film productions.The theater and cinema of Buster Keaton By Robert Knopf, page 27 In interviews with Kevin Brownlow{{cite book}}, Keaton claims he gave the director's credit to Cline mainly because he did not want to appear too Ince-like himself: "Having kidded things like that, I hesitated to put my own name on as a director and writer."
This elaborate trick-photography sequence turns out to be only a dream when Joe Roberts rouses Keaton from bed.
The bedroom then turns out to be not a bedroom, but a set on a stage.
The second half of the film features Keaton's character falling for a girl who happens to be a twin.
He has difficulty telling the twin who likes him from the one who does not.
An uncredited Virginia Fox plays one of the twins.
Edward F. Cline co-wrote the production and appears, uncredited, as a monkey trainer, whose monkey Keaton impersonates onstage after accidentally letting the animal escape.The film takes place in the Stone Age, where the leader  of the cave people declares that all the males between 13 and 95 years of age must find a female mate or face banishment.
Ollie starts looking for a wife and in the scene it says "anyones will do" but is constantly clubbed on the head by the annoyed "husbands" Eventually Ollie finds an available girl but doesn't realise that Stan, with whom he has become friends is already intending to marry this girl.
As both Stan and Ollie pursue the same girl, this eventually leads to several contests to win the affections of the young Blushing Rose.An honest cab driver, Stan, picks up a woman Anita Garvin and her baby .
He doesn’t realize his passengers are crooks.
When they get out of the cab without paying and the meter running, Stan follows them aboard a ship, where he exposes the crooks.
http://laurelandhardycentral.com/sd.htmAuthor Fawn Ochletree  stages a charity performance of her latest play, a Romanesque epic.
The gang and other neighborhood kids are forced into starring in the play, much to the chagrin of the gang.
They are completely unable to remember their lines, and struggle with maintaing their composure during the more serious moments of the melodrama.
Finally, Jackie sets off a slew of firecrackers as the finale, scaring all involved.Don Wilson, a famous blackface comedian, is preparing to headline a new show.
Arnold Wingate, his manager, persuades him to take a weekend off in the country.
When their car breaks down, they go off in search of a mechanic.
Don happens upon a ramshackle traveling theatrical stock company run by Jasper Bolivar and his daughter Ginger.
One of the actors has quit, so Ginger is holding an audition.
When Don asks the hopefuls in line about a garage, Ginger mistakes him for one of the applicants and chooses him as the best of a bad lot.
Amused , he accepts the job, giving his name as "Harry Mann".
Playing a dying Union soldier, Don has one line  and gets kissed by Ginger's character.
The show, an American Civil War melodrama, is terribly amateurish, but the audience does not know any better and applauds appreciatively.
Don's friends attend the show and laugh, particularly at his hijinks.
Afterward, Ginger fires him for his bad acting.
Wingate has an idea; he signs the company for his Broadway show as a comedy act, though the Bolivars and the rest of the actors are deceived into believing their play has been appreciated.
Don has Wingate stipulate that the entire cast be included, so Ginger reluctantly rehires him.
He insists on a raise.
During rehearsals, Don maintains his disguise by wearing blackface.
Even so, he is nearly caught out by Ginger; hurriedly putting on a costume to hide his face, Don has to invent a masquerade party as a reason, and invites her and her troupe to attend.
During the party, he tries to seduce her.
When she rejects him, he is pleased, certain that she has feelings for his alter-ego.
On opening night, Don has second thoughts about the humiliation the Bolivar troupe is about to face, but it is too late to do anything about it.
When "Harry Mann" cannot be found, Don offers to take his place.
All goes as Wingate had anticipated; the audience laughs wildly, as the confused actors continue performing.
At the end, Ginger finally realizes what is going on and berates the audience, then walks out into the rain.
When Don follows to console her, the rain washes away his makeup and reveals his true identity.
She and her father return to their old work.
A contrite Don shows up at the audition for a replacement actor.
Though Ginger turns away from him, he follows her into the tent and takes her in his arms.
The story is that of a man who takes his wife for granted and does not appreciate the effort it takes to maintain a household.
While his wife is resigned and browbeaten, his old nanny and wife's current friend is not and she orchestrates a plan that will force him to rethink his notions of being head of a household.In 1918 a young and simple Mongol herdsman and trapper is cheated out of a valuable fox fur by a European capitalist fur trader.
Ostracized from the trading post, he escapes to the hills after brawling with the trader who cheated him.
In 1920 he becomes a Soviet partisan, and helps the partisans fight for the Soviets against the occupying British army.
However he is captured by the British when they try to requisition cattle from the herdsmen at the same time as the commandant meets with a reincarnated Grand Lama.
After the trapper is shot, the army discovers an amulet that suggests he is a direct descendant of Genghis Khan.
They find him still alive, so the army restores his health and plans to use him as the head of a puppet regime.
The trapper is thus thrust into prominence as he is placed in charge of the puppet government.
By the end, however, the "puppet" turns against his masters in an outburst of fury.
Historical inaccuracy It has been pointed out " that the English never had been in Mongolia, and  that what the cunning Englishmen were doing in the film, the cunning Russians were doing in real life.
"Otto Mänchen-Helfen, Journey to Tuva, Los Angeles 1992 , p.208 Unlike "October 1917" or "The Battleship Potemkin", which are about revolutions in European Russia, "Storm Over Asia" concerns itself with the British occupation of Southeastern Siberia and Northern Tibet.
The British and the French had supported Russia on a massive scale with war materials.
After the treaty, it looked like much of that material would fall into the hands of the Germans.
Under this pretext began allied intervention in the Russian Civil War with the United Kingdom and France sending troops into Russian ports.
There were violent confrontations with troops loyal to the Bolsheviks.A family from Poland has been left homeless in the wake of World War I.
They move to Germany and struggle to survive the conditions there, during the Great Inflation.
Inga  is a Polish war orphan who has only accumulated a small amount of money from the rubble and hopes to marry Paul ([[Neil Hamilton .
Weakened by poison gas, Paul begins to invest in Inga's future and he serves as their symbol of optimism.A stray goat attaches itself to Laurel and Hardy and follows them everywhere.
They are forced to bring it into their apartment and are not particularly effective at hiding it from their outraged landlord.Working-class girl Molly  finds a necklace and hands it in to the police.
It turns out that the necklace is an extremely valuable piece belonging to Lady Devenish , who is impressed by Molly's honesty and invites her to her home to present her with a substantial cash reward.
Molly informs Lady Devenish that she has always longed to own her own taxi and plans to use the money to start up in the business.
Unknown to Molly, the conversation has been watched and heard by Lady Devenish's son Jack , who finds Molly extremely attractive.
Posing as a chauffeur, he applies to be the driver of Molly's first taxi.
She agrees to employ him and the pair gradually become romantically involved.
Jack finally confesses his real identity, and the couple make plans to marry.Mutter Krause, her daughter Erna and her son Paul live in a tenement in the poorer section of Berlin's Wedding district.
Along with them lives "the Tenant", his soon-to-be bride Friede, who works as a prostitute, and her child whose name isn't revealed in the film.
Mutter Krause is a quiet, long-suffering old woman who earns what little she can delivering newspapers.
However, Paul is an alcoholic and spends all her money on drink.
Mutter Krause can't pay back the money she owes the man whose newspapers she delivered and he accuses her of stealing and threatens her with arrest.
Mutter Krause must then pawn her last valuable possession, a treasured memento of her late husband.
Paul then breaks into the same pawn shop.
He gets away but is later arrested.
Meanwhile, Erna begins dating a young man with Communist views, who turns Erna to Communism and also helps her earn the money her mother needs by more honest means.
At the last minute, she meets a man who can help her with her family's financial troubles.
However, Mutter Krause doesn't know about this, and while Erna and Max are at a political rally, Mutter Krause turns on the gas in the apartment and kills herself along with Friede's child.Tarzan and Jane are traveling to Paris to help his old friend Countess de Coude, who is being threatened by her brother, Nikolas Rokoff.
Rokoff has Tarzan tossed overboard.
He survives, comes ashore in North Africa, and goes to Paris to search for Jane.
In Paris, Tarzan reunites with his old friend Paul D'Arnot, who informs him that Jane was taken to Africa.
Tarzan returns just in time to save Jane from a lion attack, and soon defeats Rokoff and his henchmen.Father Adrien , a monk at the Trappist monastery of Notre Dame d'Afrique in Algeria, abandons his vows and escapes to the desert, where he meets and rescues Domini .
{{plot}} Don Diego de la Vega 's son, Cesar , is in Spain finishing his education.
While Cesar is showing off to friends his remarkable prowess with the whip, he accidentally clips off the feather shako on the hat of Don Sebastian  of the Palace Guard.
Although Cesar apologizes immediately, Sebastian is unforgiving.
Their duel is interrupted by a runaway bull.
Trapped on the ground with his sword belt tangled in his boot, certain to be gored by the bull, Sebastian is saved at the last minute by Cesar.
This further infuriates him.
The action is observed by Queen Isabella  and her guest, Austrian Archduke Paul ; she requests Cesar's company immediately.
Another friend of Cesar, Don Fabrique Borusta , offers to bring him to Her Majesty.
Meanwhile, Cesar encounters Dolores , daughter of his father's old friend, General de Muro ([[Jack McDonald , as she poses for a sculptor.
It is love at first sight.
But Sebastian, who comes from a poor family, has set his sights on Dolores and her family's wealth, and is determined to win her.
Later, the Archduke invites Cesar to paint the town, with Sebastian as their "duenna."
In a local tavern the Archduke offends the patrons, all seeming ruffians, by flirting with the dancer.
Sebastian contrives his and the Duke's escape, but locks Cesar in the tavern to defend himself against the cutthroats.
In the carriage that takes them away from what he is sure will be Cesar's death, Sebastian declares he has a meeting with Dolores.
The Archduke invites himself along.
While Sebastian asks the General for his daughter's hand, the Archduke sees Dolores serenaded by Cesar, who escaped  and even acquired a guitar as a souvenir.
Seeing the reactions of the young couple, the Archduke knows Cesar has won Dolores's heart.
Although penniless, Don Fabrique has designs on succeeding in society.
He glues together a discarded invitation to the Archduke’s Grand Ball, and crashes the party.
At the ball, Cesar and Sebastian sit on either side of Dolores, both seeming frustrated in their efforts to woo her.
The Archduke summons her to him.
When Cesar sees the Archduke caress Dolores's cheek, Cesar becomes jealous and goes to confront him.
But the Archduke assures him that he is working in Cesar's favor, and proves it by dragging Sebastian to another room to play cards while Cesar and Dolores dance together.
Cesar pulls Dolores to a balcony for ardent lovemaking.
Fabrique sees them; when the pair are interrupted by Dolores’s father, General de Muro, who recognizes Cesar and is ready to give his blessing, Fabrique believes they are about to be betrothed.
In the card room, the Archduke declares that Sebastian is as unlucky at cards as he is in love.
Franque tiptoes in, and tells the Archduke that he saw Cesar and Dolores kissing: surely they will be married now.
The Archduke summons Cesar to congratulate him, to the horror of Sebastian.
When he enters, Cesar is offended at the impropriety of this news, and learns that the source was Fabrique.
Such bad manners should not go unpunished.
He informs the Archduke that someone here doesn't belong, and asks if he should remove him.
Archduke Paul nods, and Cesar pulls Fabrique out of the room by tugging his nose.
The Archduke continues to taunt Sebastian, a foolish move when Sebastian, enraged by jealousy, pulls his sword and stabs the Archduke before he realizes what he has done.
He hides when Cesar, hearing something, enters, then strikes Cesar unconscious.
He frames him for the Archduke's murder, then casually leaves.
With his last dying energy, the Archduke pulls a playing card off the table and writes on it: Sebastian assassinated me.
Archduke Paul.
Fabrique enters, finds Cesar unconscious, finds the playing card and, miffed at Cesar's insult, takes it.
Shortly thereafter he confronts Sebastian with his demands: to be appointed Civil Governor.
Both stand by while the Guard arrests Cesar for the murder and orders his immediate execution to prevent an international incident.
But General de Muro offers Cesar a gentleman’s way out by giving him a dagger.
Cesar pretends to stab himself and falls to the moat below the castle.
Months pass, while Cesar hides in the ruins of the old family castle.
He pretends to be Don Q, for "a trick must be answered by a trick!"
Fabrique has become Civil Governor, receiving regular pay-offs from Sebastian.
Fabrique has even taken over Carlo's servants, and maidservant Lola , seeing how Sebastian behaves around Fabrique, runs to tell Cesar that although gossip says they are close friends, in truth Sebastian is afraid of Fabrique.
This will prove the leverage Cesar needs to establish his innocence.
After months of mourning over Cesar, Dolores is pushed to marry Sebastian.
Just as she is about to sign the marriage contract with Sebastian, Cesar appears at the window.
He is alive!
The Queen orders Cesar’s arrest.
The best man to find him: that one-eyed ferret, Colonel Matsado .
But when Matsado stops at a country inn on his way into the city, Cesar waylays him, steals his uniform, and impersonates him.
Back in the city Cesar as Matsado pretends to beat his  old manservant Robledo ([[Charles Stevens  for information on Cesar's whereabouts, then convinces Fabrique to accompany him to the ruins where Cesar has been living these past months.
There he is determined to find what hold Fabrique has on Sebastian.
In a whirlwind finish, Sebastian and the real Matsado track Cesar to his lair ... as do his father, Zorro , who with the mute faithful family servant Bernardo (Tote Du Crow, repeating his role from [[The Mark of Zorro  has sailed from California to Spain to help.
On the way to the ruins they pass Dolores and her mother along the same road.
Finally, as all gather at the ruins, Zorro and Don Q battle the soldiers, Fabrique confesses, Sebastian is beaten, de Muro recognizes his old friend, the villains are arrested, and Cesar and Dolores reunited.The film opens with Franz Sommer  and his newlywed wife, Helene ([[Mary Johnson .
They are going through hard times, and Sommer is without steady employment, partly due to his honest-to-a-fault nature.
Helene takes a job selling cigars and cigarettes at a restaurant.
When a patron advances on Helene and ignores Sommer's warning to leave her alone, Sommer pushes him away.
He falls and hits his head, dying some days later.
Sommer is arrested and sentenced three years in prison.
Sommer is kept in large cell with four other people, one of which, Steinau , is soon acquitted and promises Sommer to help his wife while he's incarcerated.
This he does by giving her a better job at his business and offering her his friendship while they both work to get Sommer out.
For much of the remainder of the film, the men's sexual frustration from being separated from women is the focus, with scenes such as making nude sculptures from breadcrumbs and water and fighting for a woman's handkerchief smuggled in from visitation.
At the same time, there is a strong homoerotic undercurrent throughout, though only hinted at.
The fifth act brings changes to both Helene and Sommer's stories.
Helene, delirious from Sommer's absence, goes to Steinau one night after madly trying to gain entrance to the prison, and sleeps with him.
Meanwhile, Sommer's relationship with fellow inmate Alfred Marquis  begins to move from subtext to foreground.
At the prison church service, Sommer and Marquis sit next to each other, and as the preacher tells them to "Yield not to temptation", Marquis is writing Franz and Alfred in the cover of his Bible.
He shows it to Sommer, who does not respond.
That night, Sommer, seeing Marquis completely absorbed in thought, asks him what he is thinking about.
Marquis asks if his nonresponse means he hates him and holds out his hand.
Sommer takes it, and begins moving into Marquis's bed as the scene fades to an exterior night shot of the prison.
The next day, Helene arranges with the warden for a private visit with Sommer, where she intends to tell him about Steinau, but she does not.
Nor does Sommer say anything.
The short meeting is awkward and distant.
Later, Steinau makes his presentation calling for a penal system reform, but the representative is unswayed.
Steinau asks Helene to divorce Sommer and marry him, but she refuses.
Marquis is released, and Sommer shortly after him.
Marquis is briefly seen by the river with another man, happily commenting that Sommer got out today.
The other man cynically responds that he could make a good deal of money if Sommer is rich, to which Marquis takes offense and walks away.
Though not spelled out, the suggestion is that one could use Paragraph 175  to blackmail Sommer, in the a same way that it is used against Paul Körner in Different From the Others.
Sommer goes home, where his wife is happy to see him, and he is happy to be free, but confesses he no longer loves her.
Helene thinks he has found out about Steinau, but when she mentions him, he knows nothing of it.
It is at that point that there is a knock at the door and Helene opens it to find Marquis with a bouquet of flowers come to see Sommer.
Helene then figures it all out.
Sommer, now even more depressed, sends him away.
He leaves the flowers on the newelpost in the hallway while offering his apologies to Helene, who sees him out.
Going back inside, she sees Sommer eying the gas valve on the heater.
He tells her he cannot go on living and urges her to leave, but she will not.
He turns on the gas and together, they both die.In the prologue, Chaney plays Grandfather Wu, entrusting his grandson's education to a trusted English associate, stating "The West is coming to the East.
He [my heir] must be prepared for both."
Chaney also plays the part of the grandson as a young man who enters an arranged marriage with a delicate girl who dies after giving birth to a daughter.
Wu swears he will raise the child as a daughter and a son.
As Mr. Wu's daughter, Nang Ping, emerges into womanhood, he arranges a marriage for her with a mandarin.
A lively, spirited girl, she has been educated by her father's old tutor.
Despite the seclusion of her father's palace, she meets and falls in love with Basil Gregory, a young Englishman.
His father is a diplomat who does not respect Chinese ways and insults the "damned Chinks" to their faces, although the rest of his family is courteous.
Basil later informs Nang Ping that he must return to Britain with his family, but she surprises him with the revelation that she carries his child.
Later, Basil indicates he indeed wants to marry her, but she then claims she was merely trying to establish if he was an "honorable man", and reveals she is already engaged in an arranged marriage.
Via a nosy gardener, Nang Ping's father discovers the relationship.
While Wu agonizingly peruses his culture's ancient writings, he comes to the conclusion that a dishonored daughter must "die by the hand of her father."
Despite his great tenderness and love for her, he interprets customary Chinese law as grimly necessitating Nang Ping's execution.
Father and daughter bid each other a tearful goodbye, she asks him to spare her lover, indicating that would make death less painful and less meaningless for her.
She then obediently retreats to the home's central shrine.
The last scene of that act concludes as the curtain dramatically drops over the profile of Wu lifting his sword high above his daughter's prostrate form.
Wu then goes about exacting revenge on the Gregory family, whom he feels is responsible for the "dishonor" and subsequent death of his daughter.
He invites Mrs. Gregory and her daughter to his home and tricks the daughter into going into Nang Ping's room, immediately locking her in, imprisoning her on the room's raised outdoor terrace.
He has Basil tied up in an adjacent garden, flanked by an axe-wielding servant.
By sunset, Mrs. Gregory has the choice of either condemning her son to death or her daughter to prostitution.
She says there is another way and offers her own life.
Wu explains that this is not the custom in China; the parents are obliged to live on and bear the shame.
Nonetheless, Mrs. Gregory continues to insist Wu take her life instead of those of her children, and in an ensuing struggle, Mrs. Gregory stabs Wu with a knife from a nearby desk, thus freeing herself, and ultimately, her daughter and Basil.
Wu staggers to strike the gong to signal that Basil should be killed anyway, but a vision of Nang Ping appears, shaking her head and imploring her father with outstretched arms.
Pursuing the ghostly image into the hall, Wu dies and is found by his old friend and tutor, who picks up Wu's prayer beads and says "Thus passes the House of Wu.
"1940: pacifist ideals are threatened when the "United States of Europe" comes into conflict with the "Empire of the Atlantic States".
The former comprises both Europe and the territories of the European empires of the time.
The latter is a combination of the United States and South America.
In the film the prohibition era in America extends to 1940 and the tension is initially caused by bootleggers crossing the borders between territories.
One such incident leads to a shoot-out between border guards in which both sides suffer casualties.
War looks likely, but the pacifist Peace League intervenes.
Meanwhile, we learn that the tension is in fact carefully orchestrated by a sinister terrorist group financed by arms manufacturers.
They blow up a rail tunnel under the English Channel.
The President of Europe orders a mass enlistment and mobilisation, fearing that the Atlantic States are preparing a sneak attack.
Dr. Seymour, leader of the Peace League, desperately attempts to avert war.
His daughter Evelyn attempts to convince her boyfriend Michael, commander of the European air force, not to fight, but he insists he must do his duty.
Evelyn says she will leave him.
The European council are divided, but the president decides on war, saying that he will announce the outbreak of hostilities on television.
The terrorists try to kill Dr. Seymour by bombing the Peace League, but Seymour survives.
He tells Evelyn to make another effort to stop Michael ordering the airforce to attack, while he appeals directly to the President.
Pacifists led by Evelyn demonstrate en masse at the airfield.
Michael is uncertain what to do, but Evelyn convinces him to delay the attack.
Seymour confronts the President, but is forced, despite his pacifism, to shoot him to stop him making the broadcast.A young law student, Armand  becomes smitten with a courtesan, Marguerite .
Marguerite is constantly surrounded by suitors, whom she entertains at her lavish apartment.
She also has consumption and is frequently beset by bouts of illness.
Armand sees Marguerite at the opera and, later, pursues her when he attends one of her private parties.
She rejects his advances at first, but eventually returns his affection.
The two live happily together until Armand's father, seeking to protect his family's reputation, convinces Marguerite to end the relationship.
She finally relents and runs away to a wealthy client, leaving a note for Armand.
When Armand finds the note he is shattered.
The sorrow eventually turns to rage, and he decides to plunge into Parisian nightlife, associating himself with Olympe, another courtesan.
When he sees Marguerite at a casino, he publicly denounces her.
Marguerite gives up her life as a courtesan and quickly finds herself in massive debt.
Her illness also takes a heavy toll.
Eventually, as she lies dying in bed, her furniture and belongings are repossessed.
She persuades the men taking her belongings to allow her to keep her most precious possession, a book Armand gave to her.
Armand is summoned, but arrives on the scene only after Marguerite has died.
The film moves the setting of the story to 1920s Paris, and includes many lavish Art Deco sets, including that of Marguerite's apartment.
Natacha Rambova, who would later become Valentino's second wife, was the movie's art director.Young Jim Hawkins is caught up with the pirate Long John Silver in search of the buried treasure of the buccaneer Captain Flint.
Young Jim Hawkins helps his widowed mother run the Admiral Benbow Inn on the west coast of England.
When former pirate Billy Bones is killed at the inn by other pirates seeking the map to the lost treasure of Captain Flint, Jim finds the map and turns it over to his mother's friends, Dr. Livesey and Squire Trelawney, who organize an expedition to recover the treasure.
Jim stows away aboard Livesey and Trelawney's ship, which is manned by a crew largely chosen by Long John Silver, a one-legged pirate posing as a cook.
Silver's plans for a mutiny are discovered by Jim and reported to Livesey and Trelawney, who manage to hold the pirates at bay until they arrive at the island and take refuge in a shelter with Jim and the loyal crew members.
A battle with the pirates results in the map being turned over to Silver and his gang, but the pirates are eventually routed, and Jim and the others find Flint's treasure through the services of Ben Gunn, a pirate who had been stranded on the island.American Film Institute Catalog, Feature Films 1911-1920,A man, suddenly gone blind, mistakes another woman for his wife.
When nurse Hilda Nevers returns from the Orient, she is left penniless because her father has died.
She goes to work at a hospital where Dr. Kitchell is impressed by her voice, which is almost identical to that of his lover, Evelyn Wentworth.
Evelyn is engaged to Lawrence Sinton, but only for his money.
On their wedding night, Sinton is blinded when a burglar hits him on the head.
Hilda is substituted for Evelyn, who is then free to continue her affair with the doctor.
A family friend finally exposes the situation, but by then, Hilda and Sinton have fallen in love.
Sinton has an operation that restores his sight, and he and Hilda are united.Mickey is in the hospital to have his tonsils removed.
The gang decide to visit him, and end up causing all sorts of disasters.
They manage to work their way into both the x-ray and operating rooms, among other places.
Finally, the gang is subdued after inhaling some powerful nitrous oxide .A kindly old school teacher helps the gang escape from his wife’s miserable boarding school.
While escaping, they run afoul of a bootlegger, who captures them and ties them up until the old school teacher rescues them just before the sheriff gets there.
The school teacher returns to the boarding school and demands better treatment for the boys.The film focuses on Andrée Grange, the daughter of a local cafe owner.
She is about to marry Neil Tempest, a sergeant at the North-West Mounted Police, but is actually in love with Bucky O'Hara, one of Tempest's underlings whom she is constantly flirting with.
Meanwhile, her father is attacked in his cabin by Barode Dukane.
Andrée, who has witnessed the struggle, feels that she is responsible for the following death of Barode.
Her father helps her flee town by ship and O'Hara is assigned to locate and arrest her.
He tracks her down, but is followed by Tempest.
Tempest tries to help her, but they are caught in the rapids.
O'Hara eventually comes to the rescue, saving Tempest and Andrée's lives.
In the end, her innocence is proven and Tempest breaks the engagement, realizing that his fiancée is in love with O'Hara.
{{cite news}}Stella Maris was born paralyzed and has lived all of her live in her bed in a London mansion.
Her wealthy parents don't want her to be exposed to all the bad things happening in the world.
She is frequently visited by John.
They fall in love, but John has a dark secret of being unhappily married to Louise.
Louise wants a servant and hires orphan Unity Blake.
She beats her up after an incident, which results into being sent to jail.
John decides to adopt Unity and takes care of her.
This results into Unity falling in love with John as well, despite knowing the two of them can never be a couple.After the lights go out at a fancy party, Jack Donovan  turns up dead.
Inspector Killian  is called to the scene.
As part of the investigation, he calls for a re-enactment of the events leading up to the murder.
The lights go out, and another person turns up dead.
Inspector Killian again calls for a re-enactment.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0019831/http://movies.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=9505E6D71530E33ABC4151DFB2668382639EDEThe film centers around Stan and Ollie being hired as waiters at an upper class dinner party and subsequently not making a very good job of it.
The film starts with Stan and Ollie arriving at the host's house, with Ollie taking charge before even entering the property .
The maid shows them inside, where Stan puts their personal card on table with a collection of others.
Visible on their card is the slogan, “All we ask is a chance”.
A small fight breaks out between Ollie and Stan as a result of Ollie trying to keep Stan from putting his hat on inside the house.
After the wife of the household inspects them she gets shown a notice apologizing that the only available waiters were the duo, where it is revealed on the paper that their previous experience in waiting was at railroad eating houses.
Ollie comments to the wife's husband that she is “some wiggler!”  and naturally, the husband isn't impressed.
The pair get ready to start work in the kitchen where Stan tells the chef  not to wear his hat.
Stan takes it off him several times but the chef proceeds to keep putting it back on.
Stan soon loses his cool and throws the chefs hat away.
The chef retaliates by grabbing the nearest plate and smashing it over Stan's head.
Stan does the same back to the chef and they carry on using plates as weapons until Ollie calms things down by stopping Stan from destroying a large, expensive looking plate.
However, as Ollie walks off, he trips on the kitchen floor and smashes the plate, causing him to be embarrassed by the onlooking maid.
Meanwhile the party goes on, oblivious to the impending disaster awaiting them.
The wife of the household isn't having an easy time either, as she struggles to eat her fruit cocktail with the cutlery provided.
Her predicament carries on throughout the film.
Stan and Ollie come into the room as they are about to start serving food.
Stan manages to pour, what looks like soup, onto Ollie's foot while he counts the guests.
Ollie begins carrying a very large cake to the table but slips on a banana skin left by the family dog and lands head first into the cake.
Ollie manages to do this more than once in the film, much to the bemusement of the guests, and of Stan, who accuses him of falling over on purpose at one point.
The pair spend most of the film falling down while trying to serve the food, much to the anger of the husband of the household.
This is one of the first films to show Stan getting cross for once, as he loses his temper with Ollie's incompetence and with the guests.
The wife then asks Ollie to serve the salad “undressed”.
Ollie tells Stan to do this who, confused, heads to the kitchen to tell the maid what he has to do.
The maid says, “I always serve it that way...”.
Stan can't believe this but goes ahead and dresses down to his underwear to serve the salad.
The film ends with the husband and wife discovering Stan undressed, and after a futile attempt by Ollie to put a jacket on Stan and ask, “How's that - perfect?”, Ollie gets hit by the wife and falls into yet another cake.Rebecca  is a salesgirl who gets a chance at a Broadway show; there, she attracts and is ultimately rejected by a society playboy.There is not even a hint of happiness in the Hardy household: by just the second shot, Mrs. Hardy, hatted, has trudged down the steps with suitcase in hand and an angry scowl on her face.
She points to the source of her irritation off-camera, and in a funny pan over to the sofa, there's an empty-faced Stan sitting with a cigar in his mouth.
Mrs. H is having none of her husband's attempts at conciliation — "He leaves!
Or I leave!"
— and after just a moment of hesitation from Ollie, she makes good on her threat.
"Uncle Bernal won't leave us a dime if you go," Ollie offers, but she shows how much she cares about that by sweeping two planters off their stands and onto the floor as she pounds out the door.
And thus is set off the rest of the story.
First Stan and Ollie have a round of vase smashing in the living room and Stan announces that he, too, will be leaving the premises.
Then the doorbell rings — and of course it is Uncle Bernal.
Some astonishingly fast sweeping conceals the evidence of the recent destructive contretemps, and Ollie greets Uncle B cordially.
The two settle in on the sofa and Uncle Bernal says he wants to meet the little lady.
Before Ollie can say she's not home, Stan slams a drawer upstairs and Ollie is forced to say, "I'll bring her down."
Upstairs, Ollie drafts Stan into playing the absent Magnolia and supervises his wardrobe transformation, then hurries back down to ride herd on inquisitive Uncle B, who has discovered telltale debris of planters and vases behind the sofa.
Ollie paves the way for his "wife's" grand entrance by telling his uncle that "She's not much to look at — But what a clown."
Said entrance is indeed grand — when "she" turns her ankle and bounces down the steps with legs widely akimbo.
Bernal looks stunned after his first glimpse of his niece, but he smiles wanly when Ollie looks for approval.
Out on the sofa, Stan tries to snare the cigar Bernal is offering Ollie, then Uncle offers dinner — and dancing — at The Pink Pup, and "won't take no for an answer."
At the supper club, Stan proves to be as inept a wife as he was a houseguest.
When Ollie slips and pulls Stan down with him, "her" flailing attempts to get up are far removed from femininity; when her dumbbell-falsies tumble out, she has trouble staying in her chair.
She does draw the gaze of a nearby drunk, though, whose attentions turn increasingly amorous and culminate when he presents her with a centerpiece and the question: "Didn't I meet you in the fountain at Miami?"
He makes himself at home at their table, tickling Stan under the chin and rubbing Uncle Bernal more and more the wrong way, until Uncle asks Ollie, "Why don't you do something forceful?"
Ollie's forceful action is to turn his bowl of soup over the drunk's head and leave the bowl on top like a doughboy's tin hat.
The drunk maintains his dignity: he asks for his check, and for a bowl of soup "to take out."
He exits with his tuxedo soiled, his soup-bowl full, but self-esteem flying high.
When Ollie commandeers Stan's soup to replace his own, a cutaway to Uncle Bernal suggests that he might be growing a little tired of his would-be heir.
Meanwhile, a dishonest waiter has been eyeing the chunky diamond pendant dangling from a posh lady diner, and when he gets the chance, he lifts it.
But the maitre d' pledges to the woman's husband he'll have everyone in the place searched, and the culprit chooses Stan's back to drop the hot rock down.
Stan's resultant wriggling further irritates Bernal, so The Boys adjourn to the dance floor to sort things out.
But they do not have much luck there, and get caught behind a screen, then in a phone booth, then up on stage with Ollie's hands all over Stan.
Watching their gyrations is too much for exasperated Uncle Bernal who stands up and announces, "I'm through!
I'll leave my money to a dog and cat hospital!"
The Boys pursue him out the front door, but he leaves them in front of the club.
Ollie is crestfallen: "I've lost my wife, an' my fortune — What next?"
From outside the frame comes an arm and a bowl of soup, which gets overturned onto Ollie's head, leaving the bowl on top.
A cut to a wider shot reveals the little drunk from inside, still wearing his bowl like a WWI helmet, while the music track plays "Over There."
In the closing two-shot, The Boys have slowly-spreading smiles, and we realize what they have not lost: the friendship that will carry them through nearly fifty more short subjects and many features.The film opens in 1922 with Harold Lloyd  behind bars.
His mother and his girlfriend, Mildred, consoling him as a somber official and priest show up.
The three of them walk toward what looks like a noose.
It then becomes obvious they are at a train station and the "noose" is actually a trackside pickup hoop used by train crews to receive orders without stopping, and the bars are merely the ticket barrier.
He promises to send for his girlfriend so they can get married once he has "made good" in the big city.
Then he is off.
He gets a job as a salesclerk at the De Vore Department Store, where he has to pull various stunts to get out of trouble with the picky head floorwalker, Mr. Stubbs.
He shares a rented room with his pal "Limpy" Bill, a construction worker.
When Harold finishes his shift, he sees an old friend from his hometown who is now a policeman walking the beat.
After he leaves, Bill shows up.
Bragging to Bill about his influence with the police department, he persuades Bill to knock the policeman backwards over him while the man is using a callbox.
When Bill does so, he knocks over the wrong policeman.
To escape, he climbs up the façade of a building.
The policeman tries to follow, but cannot get past the first floor; in frustration, he shouts at Bill, "YOU'LL DO TIME FOR THIS!
THE FIRST TIME I LAY EYES ON YOU AGAIN, I'LL PINCH YOU!"
Meanwhile, Harold has been hiding his lack of success by sending his girlfriend expensive presents he cannot really afford.
She mistakenly thinks he is successful enough to support a family and, with his mother's encouragement, takes a train to join him.
In his embarrassment, he has to pretend to be the general manager, even succeeding in impersonating him to get back at Stubbs.
While going to retrieve her purse , he overhears the real general manager say he would give $1,000 to anyone who could attract people to the store.
He remembers Bill's talent and pitches the idea of having a man climb the "12-story Bolton building", which De Vore's occupies.
He gets Bill to agree to do it by offering him $500.
The stunt is highly publicized and a large crowd gathers the next day.
When a drunkard shows "The Law"  a newspaper story about the event, the lawman suspects Bill is going to be the climber.
He waits at the starting point despite Harold's frantic efforts to get him to leave.
Finally, unable to wait any longer, Bill suggests Harold climb the first story himself and then switch his hat and coat with Bill, who will continue on from there.
After Harold starts up, the policeman spots Bill and chases him into the building.
Every time Harold tries to switch places with Bill, the policeman appears and chases Bill away.
Each time, Bill tells his friend he will meet him on the next floor up.
Eventually, Harold reaches the top, despite his troubles with a clock and some hungry pigeons, and kisses his girl.
She continues to believe that he's general manager of De Vore.Set in Caldwell, Kansas on the Kansas-Oklahoma border, the movie features cowboy Don Carver  as a "tumbleweed"  who decides to settle down after falling in love with Molly Lassiter ([[Barbara Bedford .
Carver decides to get in on the Cherokee Strip land rush but when he's arrested and parted from his new love, he's in danger of missing the big race.
Lucien Littlefield plays a strong supporting role in the movie as Hart's comic sidekick and best friend.Keaton goes from a golf game with his girlfriend to death-row in prison through a case of mistaken identity.
In the film, Buster performs one of the most dangerous sight gags that he performed in vaudeville.
In the words of Marie Dressler: Buster would "stand on a table in back of his father twirling a basketball tied to the end of a rope, while his father was trying to shave himself with a straight razor.
And that ball kept getting closer and closer, all the sudden, BANG!"
Buster Keaton: A Hard Act to FollowSam Starling  is deep in debt, his wife Phoebe  is leaving him and still he is confident.
When Phoebe boards a luxury yacht and is wooed by the captain, Sam comes aboard as a woman and tries to seduce the captain , away from his wife.Eva Boutelle is a businesswoman whose husband Harry is out of town.
Meantime, she meets colleague Frank, who is also married.
Despite of that, they start an affair.New York Times OverviewCecilie Brunner was once a good natured woman.
After the death of her mother, she becomes a cynical vamp.
She falls in love with surgeon Peter Van Martyn.
Peter makes clear he does not approve her life style.
This results in Cecilie even partying more.
She ends up gambling her home away.
Realizing her life style isn't appropriate, Cecilie changes back into a sweet woman.
However, she is paralyzed after being hit by a car, while saving a child.
It is Peter who heals her.New York Times Overview The American Film Institute Catalog Feature Films: 1921-30 by The American Film Institute, c.1971When a ball is accidentally knocked through the window of a neighborhood haunted house, Alice is the only one brave enough to go inside to retrieve it.
While she is in there she falls and bumps her head, sending her to a cartoon dreamworld in which she rescues a cat and battles some spirits in a ghost town.
When she awakens, she retrieves the ball, only to find out that police have investigated the scene and chase her.
Alice is framed for the damages and is arrested.The film is a broad satire of American ignorance of the Soviet Union, ironically it mimics the techniques used in American cinema of the time.
The naive American, Mr. West, played by Porfori Podobed as a Harold Lloyd type , is a YMCA president who is planning a trip to the newly-founded Soviet Union to spread the idea of the YMCA.
His wife, Madge, is worried that Russia is full of savage Bolsheviks who wear primitive rags and fur for clothing, as depicted in American magazines.
He takes along his cowboy friend Jeddie played by Boris Barnet for protection and as a companion.
However, on arriving in the USSR his briefcase is stolen, he gets separated from Jeddie and he falls into the hands of a group of thieves, including a run-down Countess , who masquerade as counter-revolutionaries.
The thieves play on West's fears and engineer his abduction by crooks dressed up as caricature Bolshevik "barbarians."
The thieves then "rescue" West from the clutches of these fictional Bolsheviks, extorting thousands of dollars from him along the way.
In the end, it is the real Bolshevik police who rescue West, rather than his friend Jeddie .
West then takes a sightseeing tour of Moscow, where he sees that the Soviet government did not destroy all cultural landmarks, such as Moscow University and the Bolshoi Theater, as the thieves suggested.
The film culminates in Mr.West watching a military parade with the policeman and concluding that the American view of the Soviet Union is wrong.
He telegraphs his wife instructing her to hang a portrait of Lenin in his study.
The film opens on an audience watching a lavish 1929 Broadway show, featuring a giant gold mine production number .
Famous guitarist Nick Lucas sings "Painting the Clouds with Sunshine", which climaxes on stage with a huge art deco revolving sun.
Backstage, the star of the show ([[Ann Pennington  fights over Nick with another girl.
Also introduced are a group of chorus girls who are 'man hungry'.
They are all looking for love and money, but are not sure which is the more important.
They are visited by a faded star who is reduced to selling cosmetic soap.
They gossip about how they all want a man with plenty of money, so they do not end up the same way.
Businessman Stephen Lee  angrily forbids his nephew Wally  to marry Violet, one of the showgirls.
A corpulent lawyer friend, Blake , advises him to befriend the showgirl first before making a decision.
The showgirls are friends who stick together, and the most raucous girl called Mabel  takes a fancy to Blake, calling him 'sweetie' and showing her appreciation by singing him a song .
That evening, they all visit a huge nightclub.
Mabel ends up on a table singing another song to Blake, "Wolf from the Door", before jumping into his lap.
Showgirl Jerry  moves the party to her apartment.
Everyone gets drunk and after seeing Ann Pennington dance on the kitchen table, Lee decides he is 'getting to like these showgirls'.
Blake says he is 'losing his mind or just plain mad'.
Keeping the fun going, Lucas sings "Tiptoe Through the Tulips".
Complications come thick and fast after a balloon game, with both Blake and Lee falling under the spell of Mabel and Jerry.
The party ends with Lucas singing "Go to Bed" and Jerry contriving to get Lee back after everyone has left.
She gets him more drunk whilst tipping her own drinks away when he is not looking.
Her aim is to get Lee to agree to allow Wally to marry.
To do this, she lies and is shown up by her own mother, who accidentally finds them together.
Next morning, Jerry feels disgraced.
Mabel has been given an extra line for the show 'I am the spirit of the ages and the progress of civilisation', but cannot get the words right.
Lucas is told off for singing poor songs and sings another "What will I do without you".
Ann Pennington fights with another showgirl and hurts her eye.
Jerry is asked to take her place as the star of the evening performance.
Mabel receives a proposal of marriage from Blake, but worries about her extra line.
The show starts with Nick Lucas reprising "Tiptoe Through the Tulips"' with full orchestra in a huge stage set that shows girl tulips in a huge greenhouse.
Backstage, Uncle Steve comes back to give his consent to his nephew and to tell Jerry he wants to marry her.
The finale starts with Jerry leading the "Song of the Gold Diggers" against a huge art deco backdrop of Paris at night.
Various acrobats and girls litter the stage as all the songs are reprised in a fast moving, lavish production number.
This ends with Jerry sweeping through the middle as the music reaches a climax.
Mabel then says her line, but forgets the end.
The film opens with a title card reading "Once upon a time".
A middle-aged man  sharpens his razor at his balcony door and tests the razor on his thumb.
He then opens the door, and idly fingers the razor while gazing at the moon, about to be engulfed by a thin cloud, from his balcony.
There is a cut to a close-up of a young woman  being held by the man as she calmly stares straight ahead.
Another cut occurs to the moon being overcome by the cloud as the man slits the woman's eye with the razor, and the vitreous humour spills out from it.
The subsequent title card reads "eight years later".
A slim young man  bicycles down a calm urban street wearing what appears to be a nun's habit and a striped box with a strap around his neck.
A cut occurs to the young woman from the first scene, who has been reading in a sparingly furnished upstairs apartment.
She hears the young man approaching on his bicycle and casts aside the book she was reading .
She goes to the window and sees the young man lying on the curb, his bicycle on the ground.
She emerges from the building and attempts to revive the young man.
Later, the young woman assembles pieces of the young man's clothing on a bed in the upstairs room, and concentrates upon the clothing.
The young man appears near the door.
The young man and the young woman stare at his hand, which has a hole in the palm from which ants emerge.
A slow transition occurs focusing on the armpit hair of the young woman as she lies on the beach and a sea urchin at a sandy location.
There is a cut to an androgynous young woman in the street below the apartment, poking at a severed hand with a cane while surrounded by a large crowd and a policeman.
The crowd clears when the policeman places the hand in the box previously carried by the young man and gives it to the young woman.
The androgynous young woman contemplates something happily while standing in the middle of the now busy street clutching the box.
She is then run over by a car and a few bystanders gather around her.
The young man and the young woman watch these events unfold from the apartment window.
The young man seems to take sadistic pleasure in the androgynous young woman's danger and subsequent death, and as he gestures at the shocked young woman in the room with him, he leers at her and grasps her bosom.
The young woman resists him at first, but then allows him to touch her as he imagines her nude from the front and the rear.
The young woman pushes him away as he drifts off and she attempts to escape by running to the other side of the room.
The young man corners her as she reaches for a racquet in self-defense, but he suddenly picks up two ropes and drags two grand pianos containing dead and rotting donkeys, stone tablets containing the Ten Commandments, and two rather bewildered priests  who are attached by ropes.
As he is unable to move, the young woman escapes the room.
The young man chases after her, but she traps his hand, which is infested with ants, in the door.
She finds the young man in the next room, dressed in his nun's garb in the bed.
The subsequent title card reads "around three in the morning".
The young man is roused from his rest by the sound of a door-buzzer ringing .
The young woman goes to answer the door and does not return.
Another young man dressed in lighter clothing  arrives in the apartment, gesturing angrily at him.
The second young man forces the first one to throw away his nun's clothing and then makes him stand against a wall.
The subsequent title card reads "Sixteen years ago."
We see the second young man from the front for the first time as he admires the art supplies and books on the table near the wall and forces the first young man to hold two of the books as he stares at the wall.
The first young man eventually shoots the second young man when the books abruptly turn into pistols.
The second young man, now in a meadow, dies while swiping at a nude figure which suddenly disappears into thin air.
A group of men come and carry his corpse away.
The young woman returns to the apartment and sees a death head moth.
The first young man sneers at her as she retreats and wipes his mouth off his face with his hand.
The young woman very nervously applies some lipstick in response.
Subsequently the first young man makes the young woman's armpit hair attach itself to where his mouth would be on his face through gestures.
The young woman looks at the first young man with disgust, and leaves the apartment sticking her tongue out at him.
As she exits her apartment, the street is replaced by a coastal beach, where the young woman meets a third man with whom she walks arm in arm.
He shows her the time on his watch and they walk near the rocks, where they find the remnants of the first young man's nun's clothing and the box.
They seem to walk away clutching each other happily and make romantic gestures in a long tracking shot.
However, the film abruptly cuts to the final shot with a title card reading "In Spring," showing the couple buried in sand up to their elbows.At the end of class, poorly paid college professor Andrew Griggs begs his unruly students to show more appreciation for his efforts to teach them.
Among the most disrespectful are a spoiled trio led by Phil West , whose father is the school's wealthiest trustee; Bert Gareth, a congressman's son; and Walt Lucas, a 23-year-old who must graduate to receive his inheritance.
Unbeknownst to his friends, Phil's interest has been piqued by the professor's daughter, Amelia .
He frequently drops by the public library where she works, just to be able to speak to her.
She, however, is unimpressed by him and his wealth.
The Griggs' poverty is contrasted with the prosperity of their next-door neighbors.
"Foreign-born" shoemaker Hans Olsen is sympathetic to their plight, as is his eldest son Peter , but his wife strongly dislikes what she considers Mrs. Griggs' superior airs.
One day, Phil finally manages to persuade Amelia to let him drive her home after work, as it is raining .
He is invited inside.
Mrs. Griggs, knowing who he is, decides to spend what little she has on some fancy sandwiches, cakes and tea in an attempt to put up a brave front.
She is heartbroken to find when she brings them in that Phil has departed and poor Reverend Gates  is to be the recipient of her expensive bounty.
As a result, Mrs. Griggs is unable to make the mortgage payment on the house.
Juanita Claredon , another of the country club set, considers herself Phil's girl.
Noting a change in the now more thoughtful and considerate man, she follows him one day to the library and sees her rival.
Eventually, she realizes that his love for Amelia has matured him, and wishes him well.
When Amelia becomes sick, the doctor recommends she get some nourishing food, such as chicken.
Mrs. Griggs tries unsuccessfully to buy one on credit .
In desperation, she steals a cooked chicken from Mrs. Olsen's open window; this is witnessed by the horrified Amelia.
While Amelia does not see her mother change her mind and put it back, Mrs. Olsen and Peter do.
When Mrs. Olsen threatens to make this theft known, Peter insists he will leave home if she does.
Meanwhile, Phil sends anonymously a basket of food  to the Griggs.
However, Amelia refuses to eat it, as she believes it was stolen.
The next day, though she is still ill, she goes to work, as it is payday.
Afterward, she goes to apologize to Mrs. Olsen and to pay for the theft.
Her teary attempt to make amends moves her neighbor, who denies she lost a chicken.
The strain is too much for Amelia; she faints.
Phil and Mrs. Griggs rush over and take her home.
There, Phil confesses it was he who sent the chicken.
Amelia is finally won over.
Phil writes his father about the inadequate salaries paid to the teachers, calling it a "blot on the present day civilization"; impressed, Philip West Sr. comes to see his altered son and agrees that something must be done.
In the meantime, Phil dragoons his friends into paying the professor for extra tutoring in the evenings.
During that night's session, both Peter and Gates see that Amelia has given her heart to Phil.
In the final scene, the saddened reverend congratulates them and makes his way home.Jean Leonnec  and Marise La Noue  are pennyless lovers who eloped to Paris, she to become a prostitute known as 'the red lily', he to learn the ways of the underworld from Bo-Bo .Spoiled son Andrew Kane  competes with James Surbrun  for the affections of wild child Julie Grayton ([[Mary Anderson .
Kane is convicted of murdering Surbrun, but later exonerated.<Ref namerlLbRAPOgP0C&pg#vfalse The American Film Institute Catalog Feature Films 1921-1930], p. 906A husband  is being divorced by his wife .
She recounts his cruelty, abuse, and drunkenness before a judge  at court.
His lawyer  attempts to defend him but only succeeds in making his client look worse.
Oliver Hardy has a small part as a police officer.Set in Southern California, the movie opens with Ronald graduating high school as the school’s “most brilliant scholar”.
At his graduation, Ronald speaks on “the Curse of the Athlete”, arguing that books are more important than athletics.
Ronald decides to follow Mary, who rejected him because she loves athletes more than book worms, to Clayton which the dean describes as an “athlete-infested college”.
Hoping to impress Mary, Ronald tries out for the baseball and track and field teams but proves to be totally inept at them.
At the same time, he attempts to work jobs as a soda jerk and as a waiter in blackface while trying to keep these jobs a secret from Mary.
Eventually the dean asks Ronald why his grades are suffering.
After Ronald explains the situation, the dean empathizes with him and orders the rowing coach to make Ronald the coxswain in the upcoming competition.
The coach tries to sabotage Ronald by slipping him a sleeping potion so he cannot compete, but the potion is accidentally consumed by the team's other coxswain instead.
Despite Ronald capsizing the boat, pulling the rudder off the boat mid-race, and causing collisions with other boats, the Clayton team wins the race.
Meanwhile, Mary starts to appreciate Ronald’s futile efforts to impress her.
However, on the day of the competition Jeff, Mary’s jock boyfriend, gets kicked out of college and takes her hostage in her room in an effort to get her kicked out also to get her to marry him.
In the end, she manages to contact Ronald by telephone, who in a sudden show of athleticism sprints to her dormatory, pole vaults into her window, and fights off Jeff by throwing household objects at him.
Mary agrees to marry Ronald and they live the rest of their lives together.As the American Civil War begins, Ned Burton leaves his Southern love, Agatha Warren, and joins the Union army.
He is later protected and saved from death by Agatha in spite of her loyalty to the South.Independently, the two protagonists, Diana Martin and Secret Service agent Larry Trent are searching the jungle for missing relatives, her father and his brother.
Tied up in this plot are ivory smugglers and a lost treasure hidden in the jungle.Young Crown Prince Karl Heinrich , heir to the kingdom of Karlsburg, is brought to live with his stern uncle, King Karl VII .
The king immediately dismisses the boy's nanny  without telling the youngster to avoid an emotional farewell.
Fortunately, Dr. Friedrich Jüttner , his new tutor, proves to be sympathetic, and they become lifelong friends.
Nonetheless, despite the commoners' belief that it must be wonderful to be him, the boy grows up lonely, without playmates his own age.
Upon passing his high school examination in 1901, the young prince  is delighted to learn that both he and Jüttner are being sent to Heidelberg, where he will continue his education.
When they arrive, Karl's servant is appalled at the rooms provided for the prince and Jüttner at the inn of Ruder .
When Ruder's niece Kathi  stoutly defends the centuries-old family business, Karl is entranced by her, and decides to stay.
He is quickly made a member of Corps Saxonia, a student society.
Later that day, Karl tries to kiss Kathi, only to learn that she is engaged.
Her family approves of her fiance, but she is not so sure about him.
She eventually confesses to Karl that, despite the vast social gulf between them, she has fallen in love with him.
Karl feels the same about her and swears that he will let nothing separate them.
When he takes her boating, their rower, Johann Kellermann, turns his back to them to give them some privacy.
Karl jokingly tells him that, when he is king, he will make Kellermann his majordomo.
Then Jüttner receives a letter from the king ordering him to inform Karl that he has selected a princess for him to marry.
Jüttner cannot bring himself to destroy his friend's happiness.
That same day, however, Prime Minister von Haugk  arrives with the news that the king is seriously ill, and that Karl must go home and take up the reins of government.
When Karl sees his uncle, he is told of the matrimonial plans.
While Karl is still reeling from the shock, the old king dies, followed by Jüttner.
Later, von Haugk presses the new monarch about the marriage.
The anguished Karl signs the document for the wedding.
Then Kellermann shows up to take the job Karl had offered him.
When Karl asks him about Kathi, he learns that she is still waiting for him.
He goes to see her one last time.
In the last scene, Karl is shown riding through the streets in a carriage with his bride.
One onlooker remarks that it must be wonderful to be king, unaware of Karl's misery.Set in Jewish ghetto of medieval Prague, the film begins with Rabbi Loew, the head of the city's Jewish community, reading the stars.
Loew predicts disaster for his people and brings his assistant Famulus to inform the elders of the community.
The next day the Holy Roman Emperor Luhois signs a royal decree declaring that the Jews must leave the city by the end of the month.
Luhois sends the knight Florian to deliver the decree.
Loew meanwhile begins to devise a way of defending the Jews.
Upon arriving at the ghetto, the arrogant Florian falls in love with Miriam, Loew's daughter for whom Famulus shares affection.
Loew talks Florian into reminding Luhois that it is he who predicts disasters and tells the horoscopes of the emperor, and requests an audience with him.
Having courted with Miriam, Florian leaves.
Loew begins to create a huge monster out of clay, the Golem, which he will bring to life to defend his people.
Florian returns later with a request from Luhois for Loew to attend the Rose Festival at the palace.
He shares a romantic moment with Miriam while Loew reveals to Famulus that he has secretly created the Golem, and requires his assistance to animate it.
In an elaborate magical procedure, Loew and Famulus summon the demon Astaroth which is then enclosed in an amulet.
The amulet it inserted into the Golem's chest and the creature comes to life.
Famulus tames the Golem, and the Rabbi uses it as a household servant.
When Loew is summoned to the palace for the festival, he brings the Golem with him to impress the audience.
Florian meanwhile slips away from the court to meet Miriam, whose house is being guarded by Famulus under Loew's instruction.
Back at the palace the court is both terrified and intrigued by the arrival of the Golem.
Impressed, Luhois asks to see more supernatural feats by Loew.
Loew projects a magical screen showing the history of the Jews, instructing his audience not to make a noise.
Upon the arrival of Ahasuerus the wandering Jew, the court begins to laugh and the palace suddenly crumbles.
As the building collapses around them, the Golem intervenes and props up the falling ceiling, saving the court.
As a sign of gratitude Luhois pardons the Jews and allows them to stay in the city.
Loew and the Golem return to the ghetto, spreading the news that the Jews are saved.
Loew returns to his house and begins to notice erratic behaviour in the Golem.
He reads that upcoming astrological movements will cause Astaroth to possess the Golem and attack its creators.
Loew removes the amulet and is called down by Famulus to join in the celebrations in the street.
As the community rejoices, Famulus goes to inform Miriam and bring her to the synagogue but finds her in bed with Florian.
Devastated, Famulus reanimates the Golem and orders it to remove Florian from the building.
But the Golem, now under Astaroth's influence, literally does so by throwing Florian from the roof of the house, killing him.
Horrified, Famulus and Miriam flee, but the Golem sets fire to the building and Miriam falls unconscious.
Famulus rushes to the synagogue to alert the praying Jews of the disaster, but upon their arrival at Loew's house they find that it is burning and both the Golem and Miriam are missing.
Despaired, the community begs to Loew to save them from the rampaging Golem.
Loew performs a spell that removes Astaroth from the Golem.
Promptly the Golem, who is wandering the ghetto causing destruction, leaves Miriam, whom he has been dragging by the hair through the streets, lying on a stone surface and heads towards the ghetto gate.
He breaks the gate open and sees a group of girls playing.
They all flee except for one, whom he picks up, having developed a docile nature following the removal of Astaroth.
Out of curiosity she removes the amulet from the Golem.
It drops her and collapses.
Loew meanwhile finds Miriam, who awakes shortly after.
Happily reunited, they are awkwardly joined by Famulus, who informs him that the Jews are waiting for him by the gate.
Loew having left, Famulus promises to Miriam that he will never tell anyone of her forbidden affair with Florian, and asks in return for forgiveness for his actions.
The Jews meanwhile gather at the gate to find the dead Golem.
Rejoicing and praying, they carry it back into the ghetto, the Star of David appearing on the screen as the film ends.Thomas Hutter  lives in the fictitious German city of Wisborg.
His employer, Knock , sends Hutter to Transylvania to visit a new client named Count Orlok .
Hutter entrusts his loving wife Ellen  to his good friend Harding  and Harding's sister Annie , before embarking on his long journey.
Nearing his destination in the Carpathian mountains, Hutter stops at an inn for dinner.
The locals become frightened by the mere mention of Orlok's name and discourage him from traveling to his castle at night, warning of a werewolf on the prowl.
The next morning, Hutter takes a coach to a high mountain pass, but the coachmen decline to take him any further than the bridge as nightfall is approaching.
A black-swathed coach appears after Hutter crosses the bridge and the coachman gestures for him to climb aboard.
Hutter is welcomed at a castle by Count Orlok.
When Hutter is eating dinner and accidentally cuts his thumb, Orlok tries to suck the blood out, but his repulsed guest pulls his hand away.
Hutter wakes up to a deserted castle the morning after and notices fresh punctures on his neck, which he attributes to mosquitoes or spiders.
That night, Orlok signs the documents to purchase the house across from Hutter's own home.
Hutter writes a letter to his wife and gets a coachman to send it.
Reading a book about vampires that he took from the local inn, Hutter starts to suspect that Orlok is Nosferatu, the "Bird of Death."
He cowers in his room as midnight approaches, but there is no way to bar the door.
The door opens by itself and Orlok enters, his true nature finally revealed, and Hutter falls unconscious.
The next day, Hutter explores the castle.
In its crypt, he finds the coffin in which Orlok is resting dormant.
Hutter becomes horrified and dashes back to his room.
Hours later from the window, he sees Orlok piling up coffins on a coach and climbing into the last one before the coach departs.
Hutter escapes the castle through the window, but is knocked unconscious by the fall, and awakes in a hospital.
When he is sufficiently recovered, he hurries home.
Meanwhile, the coffins are shipped down river on a raft.
They are transferred to a schooner, but not before one is opened by the crew, revealing a multitude of rats.
The sailors on the ship get sick one by one; soon all but the captain and first mate are dead.
Suspecting the truth, the first mate goes below to destroy the coffins.
However, Orlok awakens and the horrified sailor jumps into the sea.
Unaware of his danger, the captain becomes Orlok's latest victim when he ties himself to the wheel.
When the ship arrives in Wisborg, Orlok leaves unobserved, carrying one of his coffins, and moves into the house he purchased.
The next morning, when the ship is inspected, the captain is found dead.
After examining the logbook, the doctors assume they are dealing with the plague.
The town is stricken with panic, and people are warned to stay inside.
There are many deaths in the town, which are blamed on the plague.
Knock, who had been committed to a psychiatric ward, escapes after murdering the warden.
The townspeople give chase, but he eludes them by climbing a roof, then using a scarecrow.
Meanwhile, Orlok stares from his window at the sleeping Ellen.
Against her husband's wishes, Ellen had read the book he found.
The book claims that the way to defeat a vampire is for a woman who is pure in heart to distract the vampire with her beauty all through the night.
She opens her window to invite him in, but faints.
When Hutter revives her, she sends him to fetch Professor Bulwer .
After he leaves, Orlok comes in.
He becomes so engrossed drinking her blood that he forgets about the coming day.
When a rooster crows, Orlok vanishes in a puff of smoke as he tries to flee.
Ellen lives just long enough to be embraced by her grief-stricken husband.
The last scene shows Count Orlok's ruined castle in the Carpathian Mountains, symbolizing the end of Count Orlok.Jill arrives in London with a letter of introduction to Mr Hamilton, proprietor of the Pleasure Garden Theatre.
The letter and all her money are stolen from her handbag as she waits to see him.
Patsy, a chorus girl at the Pleasure Garden, sees her difficulty and offers to take her to her own lodgings and to try to get her a job.
Next morning Jill is successful in getting a part in the show.
Her fiance, Hugh, arrives with a colleague called Levet and he and Patsy become very close while Jill is being pursued by a number of rich men, particularly a Prince Ivan.
When Hugh is sent to Africa by his company Jill moves out of the lodgings she shares with Patsy and becomes more involved with the Prince.
Patsy and Levet marry and honeymoon in Italy before he returns to Africa.
After some time Patsy finally receives a letter from her husband in which he says he has been sick for weeks.
Patsy is determined to go to take care of him and asks Jill to lend her the fare.
Jill refuses as she is preparing for her marriage to the Prince and has no money to spare.
Patsy is able to borrow the fare from her landlords Mr and Mrs Sidey.
When she arrives at her husband's bungalow, she finds that he is living with a local woman and leaves.
Levet tries to drive the woman away but when she refuses to leave him, follows her into the sea and drowns her.
Meanwhile, Patsy has found that Hugh really is very ill with a fever and stays to take care of him.
Levet finds them together and accuses Hugh of making advances to his wife.
Patsy follows him back to his bungalow.
Hugh warns his boss that Levet is dangerous.
The boss shoots Levet dead as he is trying to kill Patsy.
Hugh has discovered from a newspaper that Jill is to marry the Prince.
He and Patsy find consolation with each other and return to London.Harold Meadows  works as a tailor's apprentice for his uncle in the fictional small town of Little Bend, California, and is so shy around women that he stutters and can barely speak to them .
Though his shyness makes him completely clueless in the art of courting or impressing the ladies, Harold writes a preposterous "how to" book for young men entitled "The Secret of Making Love", detailing what he naively believes is good advice about how to woo different types of young women, such as "the vampire" and "the flapper"  - and takes it to a publisher in Los Angeles by train.
The same day, a rich young socialite named Mary Buckingham  has her automobile break down in Little Bend and boards the same train.
No dogs are allowed aboard, so she hides her Pekinese under her shawl, but her pet jumps off as the train pulls away.
Harold rescues her dog and helps Mary hide it from the conductor.
She sees his manuscript, so he starts telling her about his book, overcoming his stuttering in his enthusiasm.
They become so absorbed in each other that neither realizes that the train has reached its destination and everyone else has departed.
Upon returning home, Mary rejects the latest in a string of proposals of marriage from her persistent suitor, Ronald DeVore.
After her car is repaired, Mary intentionally detours through Little Bend repeatedly, hoping to meet Harold again.
On one such trip, Ronald is also along for the ride, and his unwanted attentions during yet another unsuccessful marriage proposal cause the flustered Mary to accidentally swerve off the road and get her car stuck near the outskirts of Little Bend.
While Ronald walks back to town for a tow, Mary serendipitously runs into Harold, who is relaxing in a rowboat in a nearby stream.
When Harold tells Mary that he is going to see the publisher, Roger Thornby, in a few days to deliver a new chapter for his book that he plans to write about her, they agree to meet afterward.
Meanwhile, back in town, Ronald unexpectedly runs into a middle-aged woman who asks if he is finally going to take her home with him and introduce her to his family, but he stalls her, then rides away in the tow-vehicle.
Mr. Thornby's professional readers find Harold's book hilariously absurd, so he informs Harold that it has been rejected.
Without any royalty money, Harold figures he cannot ask a rich girl like Mary to marry him.
When he sees her, instead of telling her the truth, he pretends that he was only using her as part of his research, and that he really is not interested in her.
Heartbroken and lonesome, Mary impulsively agrees to marry Ronald even though she has never really liked him.
Afterward, though, one of Mr. Thornby's senior employees convinces the publisher that, if the staff liked the book so much, there must be a market for it, so Thornby decides to publish the book after retitling it "The Boob's Diary", a spoof on the popular romantic-advice books of the time{{Citation needed}}.
Back in the tailor shop a few days later, a depressed Harold sees an envelope from the publisher that arrives in the morning mail, but he just rips it up without even opening it, assuming that it is a formal rejection notice.
Fortunately, his uncle notices that one of the scraps is part of an advance royalty check for $3,000.
At first, Harold is outraged and insulted to have his "pride and joy" ridiculed, but then he quickly swallows his indignation upon realizing that the royalty money means that he could probably propose to Mary after all.
His elation is short-lived, however, when he sees a newspaper story announcing Mary and Ronald's wedding which is scheduled for that same day at her family's estate.
Thinking all is lost, Harold gives up.
However, by chance, the same woman whom Ronald had met in town a few days earlier walks in and, seeing the story, tearfully exclaims that she is Ronald's wife.
As proof, she shows Harold a photo locket with the couple's wedding portrait and the engraved words "to my wife" that Ronald had given her two years earlier.
Harold takes the locket and races to stop the wedding, in a frenzied headlong-dash trip involving bootleggers, car chases and multiple changes of vehicle  through the countryside and along the crowded streets of Culver City and Los Angeles.
Eventually arriving at Buckingham Estate with only moments to spare, Harold bursts in just as the minister is about to conclude the wedding ceremony, but he cannot stop stuttering long enough to expose Ronald's intended bigamy.
So Harold whisks Mary up over his shoulder and carries her off.
When they are alone, he tells her about Ronald and shows her the locket as proof.
Mary, visibly relieved that she won't have to marry Ronald after all, and immensely grateful for Harold's heroic dash to save her from scandal, quickly forgives Harold's previous deceptions now that she sees that he truly did care about her all along, and she gets Harold to propose to her , and she accepts.Papa Gimplewart  exchanges his house, in order to escape the antics of inmates of the lunatic asylum next door, including characters played by Laurel and Hardy.
Unfortunately, the new house turns out to be 'Jerry-built', put up in two days.
After several disasters occur, Papa Gimplewart asks "Is there anything else can happen?".
He then realizes that the inmates from the asylum have just moved in next door.Wealthy Mrs. Pennington Van Renssalaer, upon hearing of a rival socialite's gathering of "settlement children" for a "lawn fete", decides to conduct a similar picnic of her own.
Five boys show up at her house and present her secretary Alvira, played by Clara Guilol, with their invitations.
The five boys are Mickey Daniels, Jack Davis, a tall boy wearing glasses and having a snobbish attitude, and the twins, Winston and Weston Doty.
Just as Mrs. Van Renssalaer, with her pet monkey, comes out of the house, Booker T. Bacon arrives with his little sister Farina in tow in her toy wagon.
Neither of these two children have an invitation.
When Alvira tells Jackie that he cannot come because he does not have an invitation either, Jackie’s dog chases her down the street until she is forced to climb a tree out of fright.
The monkey gets excited and jumps down, to be chased by Mrs. Van Renssalaer’s chauffer, (played by [[William Gillespie , who gets doused with water when the monkey finds a garden hose and turns it on him.
When things finally settle down, Mrs. Van Renssalaer, Alvira, the chauffer, and the five boys get into the limousine.
Unbeknownst to them, however, Booker and Jackie stow away on the tailgate with Jackie’s dog sitting beside them, and Farina being pulled along in her little toy wagon.
After they get going, Mickey starts flying his kite behind the car, but Mrs. Van Renssalaer’s monkey grabs the kite’s tail and is hoisted up into the sky.
When the string breaks, the monkey falls.
The chauffer has to get out of the car and rescue the monkey and when he returns, he discovers the stowaways in the rear of the limousine.
Mrs. Van Renssalaer tells him to let all the children and the dog ride in the car.
After they get going again, the limousine has a blowout.
While the chauffer is changing the tire, the kids start playing with the unused tire.
When the chauffer gets his tire back, he tries to replace it on the car, but the kids continue to pester him.
He picks one child up and sets him aside, only to find another child standing there.
He continues to set the children aside, one at a time, not noticing that the children are tricking him by running around to the end of the line to be lifted aside again.
Finally, the chauffer gets the tire replaced and tells the children to get into the car.
But the kids trick him again.
As they get in the car, they run across and exit the car on the other side and get back in line to get back into the car.
The chauffer catches on and makes all the children get in and sit down.
They finally arrive at the country estate and the kids play for a while in the house, making a mess of things and breaking a lamp, until Mrs. Van Renssalaer drives them outside where they entertain themselves by torturing the animals and swimming in the fountain in their long-handles, only to be interrupted when Peggy Cartwright comes riding up on a mule.
They can’t get dressed because the monkey has stolen their clothes, so they hide in the barn.
Peggy goes into the house and the boys get dressed and come out of the barn.
They then decide to become bullfighters, but get scared and wind up cowering in a tree, only to be ridiculed by Peggy, who explains that the ‘’bull’’ is actually a cow.
When the butler, played by Charles Stevenson, tells the kids to come into the house for dinner, they sit down at the table.
Meanwhile, the monkey steals Mrs. Van Renssalaer's pearls and climbs up onto the chandelier.
The boys climb up on the table to get it down, ruining the meal.
The gang chases the monkey all over the house.
The monkey gets away and stashes the pearls on Farina.
It’s finally time to go home, and they all pile back into the car.
But before they get back to town, they have another blowout, bringing the show to an end.Matrimony is not only a good thing, but also a good financial deal: Lawyer Dick Tyler  makes his merger bid for artist Doris  as his partner Jim Knight  squanders the firm's asset on gold-digger Evelyn .Ann Carter , an inexperienced young woman, accepts an invitation to dinner from Frank Devereaux , the son of her employer.
The date turns out to be far from what she expects.
It is aboard a "rum boat", a ship that sails beyond the 12 mile limit to get around the restrictions of Prohibition.
Worse, Frank turns out to be a cad.
When she tries to leave, he locks the door and tries to force himself on her, tearing her dress.
Fortunately, the ship drifts back into U.S. waters and a police raid stops him from going any further.
When a photographer takes a picture of the two under arrest, Frank buys it from him.
Eighteen months later, Ann is happily married to wealthy Lawrence Reagan .
They are about to celebrate their first wedding anniversary when Frank resurfaces in Ann's life, this time as the boyfriend of her naive young sister-in-law, Helen .
Though both Ann and her husband tell Helen that Frank is no good , it is clear to Ann that Helen does not believe them.
Ann goes to Frank's apartment to stop him from taking advantage of Helen.
She hides when Lawrence shows up unexpectedly.
He warns Frank to leave town before Lawrence's friend catches up with him and shoots him.
Frank had already planned to go, but when Lawrence declares that he intends to administer a beating first, Frank draws a gun.
He is shot in the ensuing struggle.
Lawrence leaves without being seen, unaware that his wife has heard the whole thing.
To protect her husband, Ann phones the switchboard operator and reenacts her earlier assault, ending with her firing two shots.
When the police arrive, the district attorney  soon pokes holes in her story.
Also, the photograph is found, providing a motive for murder.
However, Frank is not yet dead; in his last few minutes of life, he explains what really happened, exonerating both Ann and Lawrence.The gang is playing around the railroad station, and Joe and Chubby's father, an engineer, lectures against the kids playing in such a dangerous area.
True to his word, after Joe and Chubby's father leaves, a crazy man starts a train with most of the kids on it, save for Farina who is nearly run over several times.
Once Farina manages to climb aboard himself, the kids attempt to stop the runaway locomotive, but have no luck until the engine crashes into a grocery truck.
As it turns out, however, the entire incident is revealed to be a dream Farina had as Joe and Chubby's father lectured the kids about rail-yard safety.Maggie  is a Broadway dancing comedienne whose husband leaves her for one of the show's beauties, and who longs for the life of other chorus girls but eventually finds love by being herself.Mr.
Grimes and his wife operate a dismal "baby farm" near an alligator-infested swamp.
Molly, an adolescent inmate and the oldest of their charges, attempts to provide the other tattered, starving kids with the loving maternal care they need.
Most of the children are orphans.
One mother sends her child a doll, but Grimes crushes its head and tosses it into the swamp.
The children are ordered to hide anytime someone comes to the farm.
When a hog buyer shows up, Ambrose, the Grimes' son, maliciously prevents Splutters, one of the children, from hiding.
The buyer then purchases the boy from Grimes.
Molly has promised the others that God will rescue them.
When a boy asks why nothing has happened after a month, she tells him that He is busy attending to sparrows .
Ambrose catches Molly with stolen potatoes, so she and the others are given no supper.
She pleads for the children, especially the sick, youngest baby, to no avail.
Late that night, in a vision, Christ enters the barn where they sleep and takes the baby.
When Molly wakes up, the child is dead.
Joe Bailey and his associate bring a kidnapped baby girl to the farm for concealment until they receive a ransom from the rich father, Dennis Wayne.
They do not tell Grimes anything about the caper, but he reads about it in the newspaper and decides it is safer to chuck the baby into the swamp.
Molly finds out about his plan from Ambrose and flees with the children.
Grimes finds this hilarious; he figures either the mud or the alligators will take care of the children.
However, when the kidnappers come back for the baby, he leads them on a search.
Meanwhile, Splutters is brought to the police station.
He tells the policemen and Mr. Wayne about the baby farm.
Molly and the kids emerge unscathed from the swamp and hide aboard a boat, unaware it belongs to the kidnappers.
Pursued by the police, Grimes runs into the swamp, but falls into deep mud and perishes, while the two criminals flee in the boat.
Unable to shake the harbor patrol, they try to slip away in a dinghy, but are run over and drown.
The baby is reunited with her wealthy father, but when she refuses to drink her milk without Molly, Mr. Wayne offers Molly a comfortable home.
She accepts only on condition that he take in the other children as well.Jannings' character, the doorman for a famous hotel, is demoted to washroom  attendant, as he is considered too old and infirm to be the image of the hotel.
He tries to conceal his demotion from his friends and family, but to his shame, he is discovered.
His friends, thinking he has lied to them all along about his prestigious job, taunt him mercilessly while his family rejects him out of shame.
The man, shocked and in incredible grief, returns to the hotel to sleep in the bathroom where he works.
The only person to be kind towards him is the night watchman, who covers him with his coat as he falls asleep.
Following this comes the film's only title card, which says: "Here the story should really end, for, in real life, the forlorn old man would have little to look forward to but death.
The author took pity on him and has provided a quite improbable epilogue."
At the end, the doorman reads in the newspaper that he inherited a fortune from an American millionaire named U. G. Monen, a patron who died in his arms in the hotel bathroom.
Jannings returns to the hotel, where he dines happily with the night watchman who showed him kindness.
It is this ending that inspires the English language title.
Murnau noted that the story was absurd on the grounds that "everyone knows that a washroom attendant makes more than a doorman.
"Kino DVD commentaryToodie and Budge are identified as the two best children in the world.
They enjoy a comfortable life with their parents Tom and Helen Lawrence.
Helen's brother is Harry Burton, a wealthy bachelor who, although never having had one, is an expert on knowing how to raise children.
When Tom and Helen receive a letter from Harry, in which he announces he will travel to them for a vacation, they see an opportunity to get a break from the kids.
Knowing that Harry is an expert on children, they assume that he will appreciate the gesture and leave just after he arrives.
Unbeknownst to them, Harry only wrote a book about raising children because his publisher told him to, and actually he isn't fond of children at all.
He reluctantly takes the position as the babysitter of his nieces and is escorted by Alice Mayton, the Lawrence's attractive neighbor.
It soon becomes clear that Harry won't get any rest, as the careless girls often annoy him by getting themselves into danger or going through his possessions.
Many of the dangerous situations Toodie gets herself into include climbing a tree and attempting to shave herself.
Although they always try to help him out, Toodie and Budge only make things worse.
Harry is only irritated by their constant attempts to comfort him and isn't able to take advantage of his own advice on raising children.
He writes Helen a letter, in which he threatens to abandon the girls if she doesn't return immediately.
However, before he is able to send it he is interrupted by a visit from Alice.
Alice has always been a big admirer of his work, but notices that he isn't a real expert on parenting.
Giving him the benefit of the doubt, she invites him over for dinner.
Harry, secretly having a crush on Alice, accepts the invitation and shreds the letter into pieces.
He wants to win over her affection at dinner and buys some fancy flowers.
Unbeknownst to him, Toodie had secretly replaced the flowers with her doll.
As he hands Alice the box, she is surprised to receive the doll, but thinks of it as a comic gesture.
While Harry and Alice grow closer, the children run away to follow a dog they notice.
Harry and Alice immediately start to look for them and they cross a group of Spanish gypsies.
Noticing a piece of clothing on the ground belonging to one of the girls, Harry suspects that they have kidnapped the girls and violently starts to look for them.
Meanwhile, the girls are playing with the dog on the railroad tracks and are almost hit by a train.
Coincidentally, Tom and Helen are traveling on that train to surprise the girls with an early return.
They are devastated that their daughters almost died and think that Harry is fully responsible.
They start yelling at Harry, until they find out how fond the daughters are of him.
The film ends with Harry and Alice kissing each other.A young nameless poet  enters a wax museum where the proprieter  works in the company of his daughter .
The proprietor hires the poet to write a back-story for his wax models of Harun al-Rashid , Ivan the Terrible , and Jack the Ripper  in order to draw an audience to the museum.
With the daughter by his side, the poet notices that the arm of Harun al-Rashid is missing and writes a story incorporating the missing arm.
The poet sees himself in his story as a pie baker, Assad, where he lives with his wife directly by the walls of the palace where Harun Al-Rashid lives.
Smoke from the Assads' bakery covers the front of the palace, where Al-Rashid loses a game of chess, leading him to want the head of the baker.
He sends his Grand Vizier to find the man, Assad, but in doing so, he finds Assad's wife with whom he is enchanted.
After being captivated by her beauty and also captivating her with his status among the royals, he returns to tell Al-Rashid that he does not have the baker's head but rather something better - his wife.
Al-Rashid then resolves to go out that night, incognito, and visit the beauty.
When he steals away from his castle, the ruler witnesses an argument between the jealous Assad and Maimune, who both seem dissatisfied with their poverty-laden life.
Assad then says he will rob Al-Rashid's wishing ring to solve their problems.
While Al-Rashid visits the bakery that night, Assad robs the wishing ring off the wax figurine of Al-Rashid by slicing the arm of the figurine, and is spotted by his guards and is chased out of the palace.
Meanwhile, Al-Rashid tries to impress Assad's wife.
The returning Assad penetrates the locked house by force, while Maimune hides Al-Rashid in the baking-oven.
The guards rush in to arrest Assad, but Assad's wife uses the wishing ring to make Al-Rashid "appear" as he secretly comes out of the oven.
After this, they come to an agreement where Assad becomes the official baker for Al-Rashid.
{{Expand section|dateJack the Ripper After the poet finishes the last two stories, he wakes up to find that the wax model of Jack the Ripper has come to life, but it is recognized instead to be Spring-heeled Jack.
Spring-Heeled Jack stalks both the poet and the waxwork owner's daughter.
The Poet and the girl flee but find that they can't escape Spring-Heeled Jack through the dark, twisted halls of the museum.
As Jack draws close enough, multiple versions of him appear, and as his knife begins to slash, it provokes the poet to wake up to realize that the last experience was a dream.
Occasionally, Jack the Ripper was referred to as "birdner" because of his ability to travel around like a bird.Silent Madden, a criminal leader in San Francisco, and his gangster daughter Molly  have forsaken a life of crime after receiving counsel from Chang Lo, a Confucianist philosopher living in Chinatown.
A despicable gangster named Black Mike Sylva  frames Molly's father for murder, causing Molly to lose faith in abiding the law and prompting her return to a life of crime.
Black Mike plots to double-cross Molly as well during a jewelry theft, but Molly gets word from her gangster lover and foils Black Mike's plans.
While hiding out from the law, Molly's hard heart is slowly melted by her gangster lover.
The film ends with a climactic shootout.Officer 444, a heroic policeman, does battle with The Frog, a criminal mastermind who is trying to get his hands on Haverlyte, a formula that is so powerful whoever had it would possess enough power to control the entire world.The past comes rushing back as a daughter  asks her Mother  to marry a young officer .
The Mother's similar history from years past is presented in flashbacks.A Hungarian carnival troupe follows a young girl who reforms a tearaway after her old suitor tried to kill him with a poisonous lizard.After years of hopeful struggle, Al Stone  is on his way.
"I'm Sittin' on Top of the World", he sings to an appreciative speakeasy crowd.
But, as Al discovers, getting there is one thing.
Staying there is another.
Singing waiter Stone gets his huge break on a magical night when his song wows a big-time producer and a gold-digging showgirl he fancies.
Broadway success and marriage follow, but sure enough, hard times are on the way.
Al's fickle wife abandons him, taking the beloved son he calls Sonny Boy with her.
Heartbroken, Al becomes a devastated loner until friends from the speakeasy that launched his career rescue him from a life on the streets.
Soon, Al is back in lights.
But another crisis awaits: Sonny Boy is in the hospital and dying....A university student named John Browning  goes against his mother's wishes and becomes involved in a torrid love-affair with a fickle young cabaret singer named Susie LaMotte .
LaMotte toys with the youth's affections and does not tell him that she is already romantically involved with a boxer named Jim Moran ([[Joe King .
One evening John Browning discovers that Susie and Moran are having a relationship when he accidentally walks in on them.
Outraged, Browning and Moran become embroiled in an argument.
Moran pulls out a pistol, but during the ensuing struggle accidentally mortally wounds himself.
Overcome with rage, Susie blames John Browning for Moran's death and Browning is subsequently tried, convicted and sentenced to death.
Browning languishes in prison for some time, and just as he is strapped into the electric chair to be executed for the murder of Jim Moran, a bolt of lightning strikes the prison knocking out the power.
Meanwhile, Moran's widow  implores Susie to tell the authorities the truth surrounding the circumstances of the death of Jim Moran.
Susie eventually folds and confesses that she had lied and that Jim Moran had in fact accidentally shot himself after pulling a gun on John Browning.
John is pardoned by the governor and leaves prison a free man.Two young college students, Phil  and Pete , compete for the love of pretty girl named Mary , and also to win the $1500 prize in a song-writing contest to write the best show tune for the annual college revue.
The two men each ask Mary to sing for them, but eventually, she chooses Phil as her beau, and it is he who also has the winning song.
Although the film was largely devoid of much plot line, as was typical of musical review pictures of the period, there is a great deal of singing and dancing.
Many of Lois Moran’s numbers were actually footage that was cut from the film Fox Movietone Follies of 1929, which were edited out when the film was found to be too long.
This film was created to make use of the deleted scenes, and so was fashioned around Lois Moran’s singing talent.
Songs include: "Too Wonderful for Words" , "Stepping Along" , "Shadows" .Harold Van Pelham  is a rich businessman who fancies himself deathly sick when in fact he is perfectly fine.
He decides to sail to a small, nearly unknown island some distance West of South America named "El Paradiso" for his health.
Instead of the peace and seclusion he is seeking, he finds himself in the midst of a revolution, although for a long time he does not realize this .
Finally, he is thrown into prison where he meets the friendly giant, Colosso .
Together, they engineer an escape.
After Harold helps Colosso pull out a bad tooth, Colosso is eternally grateful and vows to do Harold's will.
Harold decides that the revolution is bad for his health and must be stopped.
Harold, Colosso, and Harold's nurse  manage to single-handedly quell the revolution.
Finally, Harold realizes that he is not as sick as he thought he was.Benny Horowitz ([[John Gilbert , a reformed gangster, proposes marriage to Bertha , a neighbor who had been a frequent visitor while he served his sentence.
Bertha rejects his proposal because she believes that he is still in love with Freida , Benny's former gun moll.
During a party in which Freida seeks to make Benny jealous with a former rival, Benny again takes control of the gang's leadership.
After his rival's death is ruled accidental, Benny and Bertha go off together and start a new life.In the 1890s, young Lady Catherine  is to leave her husband  in favor of her lover .
30 years later, young Elizabeth  is facing the same choice between her husband  and lover .
In the meantime, Arnold's mother Lady Catherine and lover Lord Porteous are coming to visit.The film is a morality story on the evils of marital infidelity and the wild lifestyle of New York actors.
At the same time, the film included scenes of seduction and debauchery that made it the subject of controversy over its prurient content.
The film's plot centers on Adrienne Renault , the beautiful queen of the Midnight Follies at the Frivolity Theater.
The film opens with Renault's current conquest, a married millionaire, Philip Overman .
Overman is in his private box watching Renault perform her seductive "Spider Dance."
Renault comes on stage dressed as a spider, "clad in a translucent cloak of webs wrapped cloak-like around a body-hugging black sheath.
"Stan Laurel  becomes an Asian in this Joe Rock comedy.
As the new baby in the family, Laurel is shown in a high chair and playing with a ball.
His big brother is jealous of all the attention his new baby brother is getting, so he drops him in a pile of dirty clothes, which is subsequently taken to a Chinese laundry shop.
He is found among the dirty clothes by an employee, who takes him in and raises him as his own.
When he grows up he goes to work in the laundry shop himself.
Sum Sap, as he is known, angers a Tong gangster and is in fear of his life.
After eluding the danger he manages to get the best of his foes and marry his Chinese girlfriend .
Just then, his real parents finally find him and he soon discovers that he is rich.The story opens in Paris at a masquerade ball where the unhappy Elena  meets Manuel Robledo , an Argentine engineer.
After removing their masks, they spend the night together in a park and they fall in love under the stars.
They declare their love for one another, with Manuel giving her a ring, before departing.
The next day when he goes to visit his friend, Marques De Torre Bianca , Manuel is stunned to learn that his wife happens to be Elena.
He is disillusioned and upset.
Wanting nothing more to do with her, he leaves.
At a dinner party, Fontenoy , a middle-aged banker permitted by Bianca to have Elena be his mistress in order for them to be financially secure, distracts the guests by making a startling speech around the table on how Elena, the temptress, has ruined his life and blames her for his financial ruin.
As he drains his glass he collapses at the table after taking his drink that was evidently filled with poison.
Back at their home, the Marquis, who had encouraged his wife's affair with Fontenoy, informs Elena that he too is overwhelmed with debt.
Distraught over the incident and the departure of Robledo back, she empties her jewel box, giving all that she received from Fontenoy to the Marquis.
Robledo arrives to comfort his friend and tell him that he is returning to Argentina.
As he is leaving, Elena tries to convince him that she really does love him, but he doesn't love her and departs quickly.
When Robledo returns to Argentina, he receives a difficult reception from the whole town, especially associates Canterac  & Pirovani ([[Robert Anderson .
We learn that these men have escaped their financial troubles and women back home by traveling to this remote country to spearhead the construction of a dam.
Their efforts are being stalled by a local bandit, Manos Duras , and his men.
The Marquis shows up to visit Robledo in Argentina, and he has brought Elena.
He tells Robledo he had no choice since she financed the trip.
Elena dresses formally for dinner and every other occasion, showing up the local shoeless women and entrancing all the men much to the disdain of Robledo.
Manos, who observed her arrival, comes to Robledo’s one evening to serenade Elena.
He becomes jealous and he fights Manos to protect her honour.
Even though they use whips, with which Manos is a master, Robledo wins.
After Manos leaves, Elena tends to Robledo's wounds, and he denies that his actions were a sign that he loves her.
And Manos, still seething from his loss in the fight, returns to shoot Robledo but kills the Marquis instead.
Free from marriage, Elena has distracted the men.
Robledo's associates Canterac & Pirovani have even forgotten about their women back home.
One night, the town throws a party in her honor, during which Canterac kills Pirovani with his sword over Elena.
Manos, who had not lost sight of the larger fight of stopping the foreigners from completing their project, chooses that night to seek his revenge and dynamite the dam, producing some early special effects for 1926.
Robledo and the men attempt to repair the damage before it floods.
However, they are not successful and a tired, nearly drowned Robledo returns to find Elena.
Though at first he tries to kill her, he finds that he cannot and, with his resistance low, he succumbs, declaring that he is beaten and that he does love her.
As he sleeps, and though she had insisted to Robledo that she had never used the word "love" with anyone else, she leaves him, with a note telling him that she will not be his ruin.
Six years later, the dam is completed and the engineer Robledo is back in Paris being lauded for his success by a crowd of people, with his fiancée on his arm.
As they are climbing into a cab, however, Robledo sees a woman in the crowd that he thinks is Elena.
He follows her, finding her in a cafe, where he buys her a drink.
He is surprised that she doesn't seem to remember him, and soon leaves.
Elena then has a vision, that a man across the cafe is actually Jesus Christ, halo and all.
It is then revealed that she has kept Robledo's ring, the one he had given her that first night they met.
She gives it to the man and the film ends with her walking away, alone down the street.
In an alternate ending, Robledo spots Elena while at an awards ceremony and the two reconcile.Commentary by Robert Osborne on Turner Classic Movies, March 5, 2012.Kitty, Jean and Ted are all children of divorce.
The two girls are left in a convent school by their mothers and Ted's upbringing is sketchy at best.
When the three of them grow up, Ted falls in love with Jean.
Kitty loves Vico, an impoverished prince, but she refuses to marry him because her mother, Katherine, has drilled into her the necessity of marrying for money.
So Kitty sets her sights on the wealthy Ted, even though Jean is her friend.
After a night of drunken revelry, Ted wakes up to find he and Kitty are married.
Even though he is desperately unhappy, Jean doesn't want their parents' mistake repeated and refuses to allow him to seek a divorce so that he can marry her.
A few years later, things have gotten much worse for Kitty and Ted.
Although they have a baby, it does nothing for the marriage and Ted does everything he can to avoid his unwanted wife.
Then Kitty finds out that, for religious reasons, Vico can never marry a divorced woman.
Since she can see no other way out, she poisons herself so that Ted and Jean can be together.Count Alfred, military attaché to the Sylvanian Embassy in Paris, is ordered back to Sylvania to report to Queen Louise for a reprimand following a string of scandals, including an affair with the ambassador's wife.
In the meantime Queen Louise, ruler of Sylvania in her own right, is royally fed-up with her subjects' preoccupation with whom she will marry.
Intrigued rather than offended by Count Alfred's dossier, Queen Louise invites him to dinner.
Their romance progresses to the point of marriage when, despite his qualms, for love of Louise Alfred agrees to obey the Queen.Buster Keaton is walking by and peers through a barred window while captured murderer "Dead Shot Dan" is having his picture taken.
Seeing that the photographer is looking away, Dan moves his head to the side and snaps a picture of Buster without anybody noticing.
Thus, when Dan escapes, the wanted posters all show Buster with his hands on the bars.
Buster is chased by various policemen, including a persistent Police Chief.
Despite his desperate predicament, Buster notices a pretty young woman and wrangles an invitation to dinner, only to discover her father is the Police Chief.
This short contains one of Keaton's more memorable images: A distant, speeding train approaches the camera, and stops with a close-up of Keaton who has been sitting on the front of the train.The King of Illyris  marries a neighboring princess , who finds out he has a mistress, Sephora .
Revolted, she turns to Prince Alexei  for friendship.
Turmoil increases as a revolution demands the abdication of the King and the Queen opposes this decision.The film begins with the looting of a ship already captured and badly mauled, by the pirates.
After relieving the ship and crew of valuables, the pirates fire the ship, blowing up the gun powder on board, sinking her.The Black Pirate at silentera.com database While the pirates celebrate, two survivors wash up on an island, an old man and his son.
Before dying, the older man  gives his signet ring to his son .
His son buries him, vowing vengeance.
The Pirate Captain and Lieutenant bring some crew to the other side of the same island to bury some of their plunder.
They then plan to murder the other pirates: "Dead men tell no tales."
But first, Fairbanks appears as the "Black Pirate", who offers to join their company and fight their best man to prove his worth.
After much fighting, the Black Pirate kills the Pirate Captain.
The Pirate Lieutenant sneers, and says there is more to being a pirate than sword tricks.
To further prove his worth, the Black Pirate says he will capture the next ship of prey single-handed, which he does.
He then uses his wits to prevent the pirates from blowing up the ship along with the crew and passengers, suggesting that they hold the ship for ransom.
When a "princess" is discovered on board, he urges the crew to use her as a hostage to insure their ransom will be paid, as long as she remains "spotless and unharmed".
The pirates cheer the Black Pirate, and want to name him captain.
The Pirate Lieutenant jeers that they can wait to see if the ransom is paid by noon the next day.
If the ransom is not paid, the "Princess" will become the Pirate Lieutenant's prize and the Black Pirate will walk the plank.
It is a long wait.
The Pirate Lieutenant tries to attack the "Princess", kill the Black Pirate, and destroy the ship before the deadline.
But the Black Pirate and Governor arrive with ships and troops to stop the pirates.
There is a fierce fight, with the outcome uncertain.
In the end, the Black Pirate is revealed to be a Duke, and the "Princess" he loves a noble Lady.
Even the old one-armed pirate Mac Tavish is moved to tears of joy by the happy ending.http://www.silentsaregolden.com/featurefolder5/BPcommentary.htmlLaurel and Hardy play the roles of a footman  and doorman  at an upper class hotel.
Jean Harlow also makes a brief appearance in this film, as a blonde bombshell who gets partially stripped by Laurel & Hardy.
One of the funnier scenes is one with an automatic elevator.
A haughty prince tries to get on the elevator from the first floor.
Simultaneously Oliver summons the elevator.
For some reason the outer doors don't close and when the prince  tries to step in, he falls into the elevator well.
Oliver rides down in the elevator and disappears.
The prince is pulled out of the well, all disheveled and dirty.
He tries it again.
This time Stan summons the elevator and the whole thing repeats.Marie Skinner  is a gold digger with her hooks out for devoted middle-aged family man J.C. Hudson , a portly real estate tycoon, who falls for her when she contrives to meet him.
When his wife  and grown children, Ruth  and Billy  discover him dancing with Marie at a nightclub, J.C. leaves home the next day.
Ruth seeks out Marie to shoot her, but is interrupted by Marie's boyfriend, jazz hound Babe Winsor , who takes a shine to her.
When Judson walks in on them he condemns her licentiousness, but is forced to face his double standard when he witnesses a violent argument between Marie and Babe.
Full of contrition, J.C. returns to home and hearth and the bosom of his loving family.jhailey@hotmail.com Plot summaryWollstein, Hans J.
Plot synopsisTCM Synopsis Full synopsis The main narrative is introduced using a frame story in which most of the plot is presented as a flashback, as told by the protagonist, Francis .
Francis  and an elderly companion are sharing stories when a distracted-looking woman, Jane , passes by.
Francis calls her his betrothed and narrates an interesting tale that he and Jane share.
Francis begins his story with himself and his friend Alan , who are both good-naturedly competing to be married to the lovely Jane.
The two friends visit a carnival in their German mountain village of Holstenwall, where they encounter the captivating Dr. Caligari  and a near-silent somnambulist, Cesare , whom the doctor keeps asleep in a coffin-like cabinet, controls hypnotically, and is displaying as an attraction.
Caligari hawks that Cesare's continuous sleeping state allows him to know the answer to any question about the future.
When Alan asks Cesare how long he will live, Cesare bluntly replies that Alan will die before dawn tomorrow&mdash;a prophecy which is fulfilled.
Alan's violent death at the hands of some shadowy figure becomes the most recent in a series of mysterious murders in Holstenwall.
Francis, along with Jane, to whom he is now officially engaged, investigates Caligari and Cesare, which eventually results in Caligari's order for Cesare to murder Jane.
Cesare nearly does so, revealing to Francis the almost certain connection of Cesare and his master Caligari to the recent homicides; however, Cesare refuses to go through with the killing because of Jane's beauty and he instead carries her out of her house, pursued by the townsfolk.
Finally, after a long chase, Cesare releases Jane, falls over from exhaustion, and dies.
In the meantime, Francis goes to the local insane asylum to ask if there has ever been a patient there by the name of Caligari, only to be shocked to discover that Caligari is the asylum's director.
With the help of some of Caligari's oblivious colleagues at the asylum, Francis discovers through old records that the man known as "Dr. Caligari" is obsessed with the story of a mythical monk called Caligari, who, in 1093, visited towns in northern Italy and similarly used a somnambulist under his control to kill people.
Dr. Caligari, insanely driven to see if such a situation could actually occur, deemed himself "Caligari" and has since successfully carried out his string of proxy murders.
Francis and the asylum's other doctors send the authorities to Caligari's office, where Caligari reveals his lunacy only when told that his beloved slave Cesare has died; Caligari is then imprisoned in his own asylum.
The narrative returns to the present moment, with Francis concluding his tale.
A twist ending reveals that Francis' flashback, however, is actually his fantasy: he, Jane and Cesare are all in fact inmates of the insane asylum, and the man he says is Caligari is his asylum doctor, who, after this revelation of the source of his patient's delusion, says that now he will be able to cure Francis.A San Francisco earthquake orphan is adopted by relatives in Spain and gets wooed by a Romeo there.
She turns him down to return to a San Francisco plumber.Slow-witted army private Cuthbert Hope  manages to makes life miserable for his gruff Top Sargeant Banner .
Banner must also report back to firm Captain Bustle Finlayson.
{{plot}} The story begins when a rich Professor specializing in genetics decides to conduct an experiment of impregnating a woman of low social status with a mandrake, which is a plant believed by legend to sprout from the semen of hanged prisoners.
He asks his young nephew, Franz, to obtain a woman from the "scum of the society".
Franz reluctantly retrieves a prostitute, and the experiement is performed on her.
Alraune grows up to become a beautiful woman with a corrupted soul.
The Professor, who decided to adopt Alraune as his own daughter, sends her to a convent to study.
Although she was sheltered from the influences of the outside world, Alraune grew up quite promiscuous and troublesome.
She sneaks boyfriends into the convent and plays pranks on the nuns.
Using her charm, she convinces her boyfriend to steal from his parents and run away with her.
He steals the money from his father and boards a train with Alraune.
The professor then meets with his nephew Franz and shows him a journal, with details of Alraune's development over the years.
Franz is appalled and warns his uncle about the potential consequences of violating the laws of nature.
After Franz leaves, the Professor's servant gives him the letter from the convent informing him that his "daughter" is nowhere to be found.
Inside the train, Alraune exchanges meaningful glances with a stranger, much to the dismay of her boyfriend.
She attracts the attention of the circus magician, who charms her by performing magic tricks.
He puts a mouse on Alraune's leg to incite surprise, but she shows no fear.
The sight of the magician touching Alraune's leg prompts her jealous boyfriend to attack the magician, leading to a scuffle.
After months of searching for Alraune, the Professor tracks her to a circus, where she is performing as the magician's assistant.
Alraune is seen flirting with the lion tamer, causing the magician to become jealous.
We also see her boyfriend helplessly looking after her, but cannot do anything to win her back.
The Professor sees her performing and decides to confront Alraune in her dressing room.
Alraune is obviously afraid of her "father" and after a few reprimands, decides to leave the circus behind and go back with her father.
We then see her boyfriend clutching Alraune's circus costume and crying his heart out.
Alraune was for a time happy with her new life living with her "father" who showers her with gifts in a place where nobody knows about her previous indiscretions.
She is introduced to the inner circles of the society through her father's influence and money and the professor continues to chronicle Alraune's life.
Her "father" secretly acknowledges that he has fallen for her and wonders if her promiscuous nature was due to her mother's promiscuosity.
When a Viscount, who is enamored by Alraune, asks the Professor for her hand in marriage, he turns him down.
Alraune is heartbroken to hear this and tells the Viscount that she'll run away with him instead.
On the night when she was to meet the Viscount to elope, Alraune finds the Professor's journal and becomes angry at her "father" for having lied to her.
Wanting a chance to exact her revenge, she tells Viscount that she has decided to stay with her father.
As time goes on, she incites her father's jealousy by publicly flirting with men at parties.
She continues to make the Professor jealous until he decides that they should leave for a new town.
Alraune continues to attract men and seduce the Professor until he is at the point of relenting.
Finally, Alraune tells him that she knows about her life's secret.
He is delighted to know this, as now he can finally pursue his love and obsession for Alraune.
She later meets with Franz, whom she was able to charm as well.
The Professor realizes that he loves Alraune too much to let her go, so he writes in his journal that she either stays with him or he will kill her.
The next night, the Professor and Alraune go to a gambling club.
The Professor finds out that Alraune's affluent lifestyle has depleted his financial resources and he asks Alraune to join him in a gambling table, believing the mandrake legend that whoever possesses it will have good luck.
After a long winning streak, Alraune leaves the professor in the middle of a round and goes home to pack her things and escape.
The Professor loses his winnings and returns home to find Alraune packing.
He asks her to stay, sell her remaining jewels for money and move to a new place where they can find happiness.
She tells him that she will, but not with him.
The Professor grabs a knife and chases Alraune around the house, but Franz arrives in time stop him.
Franz takes Alraune away, leaving the Professor condemned to a life of loneliness and insanity.Four young men from various walks of life sign up as flyers for the Lafayette Escadrille, a military unit known as "The Legion of the Condemned" composed mostly of American volunteer pilots flying fighters in World War I.
All four men are running away from something—the law, love, or themselves.
Whenever a dangerous mission comes up, the four men draw cards to see who will fly off to near-certain doom.
With his best friend Byron Dashwood  already having died in combat, Gale Price  draws the high card next time around.
As he prepares to drop a spy behind enemy lines, Gale remembers the events leading up to this moment—remembering his ill-fated romance with Christine Charteris , whom he now believes to be a German spy.
As he approaches his aircraft, Gale discovers that his passenger is Christine, who is actually an operative in the French secret service.
Before she can explain her true identity, Gale is obliged to fly Christine to her rendezvous point.
She is arrested as a spy and sentenced to be executed but is saved when the firing squad is destroyed by a bombing raid.
Afterwards, they are rescued by their unit and reconciled.
From a lost expedition to a plateau in Venezuela, Paula White brings the journal of her father explorer Maple White to the eccentric Professor Challenger in London.
The journal features sketches of dinosaurs which is enough proof for Challenger to publicly announce that dinosaurs still walk the earth.
Met with ridicule at an academic meeting at the Zoological Hall, Challenger reluctantly accepts a newspaper's offer to finance a mission to rescue Maple White.
Professor Challenger, Paula White, sportsman Sir John Roxton, news reporter Edward Malone , a sceptical professor Summerlee, an Indian servant Zambo, and Challenger's butler Austin leave for the plateau.
At their campsite at the base of the plateau, the explorers are shocked when a large rock falls, sent their way by an ape-man perched on top of an overhead ledge.
As the crew look up to see their attacker, Challenger spies overhead a Pteranodon  which sighting proves that the statements in Maple White's diary are true.
Leaving Zambo and Austin at the camp, they cross a chasm onto the plateau by cutting down a tree and using it as a bridge, but it is knocked over by an Apatosaurus, leaving them trapped.
The explorers witness various life-and-death struggles between the prehistoric beasts of the plateau.
An Allosaurus attacks an Anatotitan, and knocks it into a bog.
The Allosaurus then attacks, and is driven off by a Triceratops.
Eventually, the Allosaurus makes its way to the campsite and attacks the exploration party.
It is finally driven off by Ed who tosses a torch into its mouth.
Convinced that the camp isn't safe, Ed climbs a tree to look for a new location, but is attacked by the ape-man.
Roxton succeeds in shooting the ape-man, but the creature is merely wounded and escapes before he can finish him off.
Meanwhile, an Agathaumas is attacked by a Tyrannosaurus, and gores it to death.
Suddenly, another Tyrannosaurus attacks and kills the Agathaumas, along with an unfortunate Pteranodon.
The explorers then make preparations to live on the plateau potentially indefinitely.
A catapult is constructed and during a search for Maple White, Roxton finds his remains, confirming his death.
It is at this time that Ed confesses his love for Paula and the two are unofficially wed by Summerlee who used to be a minister.
Shortly afterwards, as the paleontologists are observing a Brontosaurus, an Allosaurus attacks it and the Brontosaurus falls off the edge of the plateau, becoming trapped in a mud bank at the base of the plateau.
Soon afterwards, a volcano erupts causing a mass stampede among the giant beasts of the lost world.
The crew is saved when Paula's pet monkey Jocko climbs up the plateau carrying a rope.
The crew use the rope to pull up a rope ladder constructed by Zambo and Austin and then climb down.
As Ed makes his descent, he is again attacked by the ape-man who pulls the rope ladder.
The ape-man is again shot and finally killed by Roxton.
They discover the Brontosaurus that had been pushed off the plateau had landed softly in the mud of the river, trapped but still alive, and Challenger manages to bring it back to London, as he wants to put it on display as proof of his story.
However, while being unloaded from the ship it escapes and causes havoc until it reaches Tower Bridge, where its massive weight causes a collapse, and it swims down the River Thames.
Challenger is morose as the creature leaves.
Ed discovers that the love he left in London has married in his absence, allowing him and Paula to be together.
Roxton morosely but gallantly hides his love for Paula as Paula and Ed leave together, while two passersby note: "That's Sir John Roxton--sportsman.
"Remember "Mem" Steddon  marries Owen Scudder  after a whirlwind courtship.
However, on their wedding night, she has a change of heart.
When the train taking them to Los Angeles stops for water, she impulsively and secretly gets off in the middle of the desert.
Strangely, when Scudder realizes she is gone, he does not have the train stopped.
Mem sets off in search of civilization.
Severely dehydrated, she sees an unusual sight: an Arab on a camel.
It turns out to be actor Tom Holby ([[Frank Mayo ; she has stumbled upon a film being shot on location.
When she recuperates, she is given a role as an extra.
Both Holby and director Frank Claymore ([[Richard Dix  are attracted to her.
However, when filming ends, she does not follow the troupe back to Hollywood, but rather gets a job at a desert inn.
Meanwhile, Scudder is recognized and arrested at the train station.
He turns out to be a cold-blooded murderer who marries women, insures them, and then kills them for the payoff.
He escapes and persuades a gullible Abigail Tweedy ([[Dale Fuller  to filing off his handcuffs.
She becomes his next victim, though fortunately for her, he only robs her of her savings.
He leaves the country and targets Englishwoman Lady Jane .
To his profound embarrassment, she turns out to be the same sort of crook as he; she and her father "Lord Fryingham"  rob him, but let him live.
When the inn closes for the season, Mem travels to Hollywood in search of work.
Her actress friend from the desert shoot, Leva Lemaire , persuades Claymore to give her a screen test for the only uncast role in his next production: a comic part.
Though she fails miserably, Claymore decides to train her anyway.
She proves to be talented and steadily gets better and better parts.
Just as Mem is rising to fame, Scudder returns and sneaks into her bedroom.
Holby and Claymore have become rivals for Mem's affections.
When Scudder sees their warmly-autographed photographs, he flies into a jealous rage.
Mem, aware of her husband's past and fearful of a career-ending scandal, offers him money to leave her alone, but he wants her.
Scudder leaves only when she threatens to kill herself.
Claymore shows up, but when Scudder overhears the director propose marriage to his protegée, Scudder tries to shoot him.
Claymore wrestles away his gun, but lets him go at Mem's urging.
When star Robina Teele  is seriously injured by a falling light, Claymore decides to have Mem take her place.
Filming continues on an outdoor circus set, complete with a full-scale Big Top tent.
In the climax, a lightning storm sets the huge tent on fire in the middle of filming.
Scudder, who has snuck into the audience of extras, takes advantage of the panic and confusion to try to kill an unsuspecting Claymore by driving a wind machine  at him.
Holby spots Scudder and struggles with him.
When Mem stumbles into the machine's path, Scudder rushes to save her and loses his own life.
He apologizes before dying, explaining that all his life there was something wrong with him, but he did at least one thing right.
Afterward, Mem chooses Claymore over Holby.Ruth stars in the film, playing himself, but the details of his life are completely fictionalized.
In the film, Ruth comes from a small country town and has a loving home life, but in real life, he grew up in Baltimore, Maryland, and spent most of his childhood in a reformatory http://sacbee.com/172/story/149603.html.
In the film, shades of the baseball movie The Natural, Ruth cuts down a tree to make his own bat.The tactics of a vicious slumlord and greedy businessman finally drive a distraught man to commit suicide.
The businessman is tried for murder and executed, and is afterward taken by demons to Hell where he will spend the rest of eternity.IMDb entry While stationed in Algiers Commandant Denis Hogan  receives a letter containing bad news and requests that he be allowed to return to his home country of Ireland, where he is a wanted man.
In Ireland, Baron James O'Brien  is told by his doctor that he has no more than a month to live.
He decides to marry off his only daughter Connaught  to a socialite, John D'Arcy  despite her love of childhood friend Dermot McDermot .
Hogan returns to Ireland and disguises himself as a holy man.
On his way to the O'Brien's house he is recognised by a gatekeeper, whom he reveal his intentions to kill a man to.
Hogan meets Dermot McDermot and the three men witness the lights of Glenmalure's chapel being lit, signifying a wedding is taking place.
At this time a group of soldiers ask the gate keeper if he has seen Hogan.
Later that night, after Connaught and D'Arcy have been wed, the Baron dies.
On the night of his funeral Hogan sneaks about the grounds of Hangman's House and is spotted by D'Arcy.
D'Arcy is startled by the appearance of Hogan.
At bedtime D'Arcy tries to sleep with Connaught but she rejects his advances.
A community race is held on St. Stephen's Day and Connaught's horse The Bard is due to race.
The horse's jockey goes missing just before the race because of interference from D'Arcy who has bet against the horse.
Dermot is required to jockey the horse and he wins the race leading a drunken D'Arcy to shoot The Bard.
D'Arcy is ostracised by the community because of this.
Hogan is arrested at the race.
At night Dermot and D'Arcy meet in a pub where D'Arcy reveals that he had an affair with Hogan's sister.
Dermot gives D'Arcy money to leave Ireland and threatens him that if he ever sees him again he will kill him.
Hogan escapes from prison and a gunfight erupts between his men and the guards.
Later Dermot and Connaught visit Hogan's hideout and Hogan reveals that his sister died following D'Arcy's desertion.
Connaught returns to Hangman's House to discover that D'Arcy has returned.
After a struggle she flees to Dermot's house.
Hogan and Dermot go to Hangman's House and confront D'Arcy.
During a fight between the men a fire breaks out and burns down the house.
Hogan and Dermot escape but D'Arcy falls to his death as a balcony collapses.
Connaught and Dermot see Hogan off at the port as he returns to Algiers.
Connaught gives Hogan a kiss and Dermot shakes his hands and thanks him.
Connaught and Dermot walk away together as Hogan watches them.An escaped prisoner seeks refuge in the predominantly African American town of Tatesville, Georgia, by passing himself off as the Rt.
Reverend Isaiah T. Jenkins.
He is joined in town by a fellow criminal, and the pair scheme to swindle the phony reverend's congregation of their offerings.
Jenkins falls in love with a young member of his congregation, Isabelle Perkins, even though she is in love with a poor young man named Sylvester, who happens to be Jenkins’ long-estranged twin brother.
Jenkins steals money from Martha Jane, Isabelle's mother and convinces the young woman to take the blame for his crime.
She flees to Atlanta and dies just as her mother locates her.
Returning to Tatesville, Isabelle's mother confronts Jenkins in front of the congregation.
Jenkins flees and during a twilight struggle he kills a man who tries to bring him to justice.
The following morning, Martha Jane awakens and realizes the episode with Jenkins was only a dream.
She provides Isabelle  and Sylvester with the funds to start a married life together.
"Overview for Body and Soul", Turner Classic MoviesAfter saving a homeless Hungarian violinist named Freddie , Mike , a jazz musician and leader of a quartet The Four Seasons, convinces his band members to let afford her room and board.
For their act of kindness, Freddie offers to manage the band.
After the Four Seasons are fired from their job, Freddie convinces Keppel , the owner of a Hungarian cafe, to hire the band which she soon joins.
After Prince Nicholaus of Aregon  goes to the cafe to see the band, the Four Season gain a following.
Problems arise when both the Prince and Mike fall in love with Freddie.In the month of May 1550 two great houses were to be united by the betrothal of the son of Rutland and the heiress of Haddon Hall.
Sir George Vernon  is forfeit to Rutland on his daughter's 18th birthday, for ten of his thirty manors lying adjacent to Rutland.
His daughter Dorothy  and John Manners  are forced to marry each other on their 18th birthday, but they can't stand each other.
John is in France with Mary Stuart  and George intents to use this as a way for Dorothy to be able to marry her cousin Malcolm Vernon .
On her 18th birthday, Dorothy prepares to marry Malcolm.
Malcolm comes over from Scotland for the wedding, while Dorothy has seconds thoughts about marrying someone she has never met.
Meanwhile, George is demanded by the Rutland men to forfeit for Dorothy not marrying John.
Dorothy is charmed when she meets Malcolm and makes sure to him she has no intention in marrying John.
She doesn't know Malcolm really is John and when he reveals himself, she is shocked and insulted.
She informs her father, while the real Malcolm shows up as well.
Dorothy has to point out John, but fears John will be killed and points out Malcolm.
John has the time to run away, while Malcolm is revealed to not be John.
Meanwhile, Mary Stuart is ordered to come to England immediately when her ring is found.
John is the one who has to get her from Scotland, but is afraid Queen Elizabeth will find out.
Dorothy has secretly fallen in love with John and meets him several times in the forest and at the castle in disguise.
Dorothy tells him she wants for them to elope, but John convinces her to wait for the right time.
When George catches Dorothy and John together, he is outraged.
Malcolm comes in to kill John, but Dorothy stops him and John flees.
Dorothy keeps on seeing John, while her wedding to Malcolm keeps on getting closer.
John has just taken Mary into his home for refuge.
George has become very wealthy and even invites Queen Elizabeh  for the wedding.
Queen Elizabeth accepts, but orders everyone who assists Mary to be beheaded.
Dorothy, meanwhile, feels she is a prisoner in her own home and writes John a letter about wanting to elope with him.
George gets his hands on the letter and orders John to be hanged.
She attempts to escape, but gets caught and imprisoned.
Dorothy agrees to marry Malcolm if John won't be hanged.
She didn't know John was actually never captured and that George lied to trick her into marrying Malcolm.
On her wedding day, Dorothy finds out her father lied to her about hanging John and seeks revenge.
She orders her maid Jennie  to pursue John to rescue Dorothy.
When Jennie arrives at the Rutland Castle, she catches Mary in John's arms and hurries back to Haddon Hall to tell Dorothy the truth.
Dorothy is outraged and informs Queen Elizabeth about Mary's whereabouts.
Queen Elizabeth announces she will behead the earl of Rutland and John for treason and orders Malcolm and his troops to arrest him.
Dorothy immediately feels sorry for John, but isn't able to stop the queen.
Dorothy rushed to the Rutland Castle, but isn't able to leave Haddon Hall as the gates are closed.
Dorothy is able to escape over the walls and is the first one to arrive at Rutland Castle.
She warns Mary and finds out John is on his way to Haddon Hall.
Dorothy tries to save Mary by dressing up like her.
The troops mistake Dorothy for Mary and take her to the queen.
Here, Dorothy reveals herself.
Queen Elizabeth feels betrayed and demands for Dorothy to be taken away to jail.
John comes to rescue her, but Queen Elizabeth catches them.
She decides to release Dorothy and send John away to Wales for one year.
When Dorothy is informed Malcolm and his troops intend to murder Queen Elizabeth, she and John try to save her.
This results into Malcolm and John getting into a sword fight.
John eventually kills Malcolm and is reunited with Dorothy.Wealthy Rollo Treadway  suddenly decides to propose to his neighbor across the street, Betsy O'Brien , and sends his servant to book passage for a honeymoon sea cruise to Honolulu.
When Betsy rejects his sudden offer however, he decides to go on the trip anyway, boarding without delay that night.
Because the pier number is partially covered, he ends up on the wrong ship, the Navigator, which Betsy's rich father  has just sold to a small country at war.
Agents for the other small nation in the conflict decide to set the ship adrift that same night.
When Betsy's father checks up on the ship, he is captured and tied up by the saboteurs.
Betsy hears his cry for help and boards the ship to look for him, just before it is cut loose.
The Navigator drifts out into the Pacific Ocean.
The two unwitting passengers eventually find each other.
At first, they have great difficulty looking after themselves, but adapt after a few weeks.
At one point, they sight a navy ship and hoist a brightly-colored flag, not realizing it signals that the ship is under quarantine.
As a result, the other vessel turns away.
Finally, the ship grounds itself near an inhabited tropical island and springs a leak.
While Rollo dons a deep sea diving suit and submerges to patch the hole, the black natives canoe out and take Betsy captive.
When Rollo emerges from the ocean, the natives are scared off, enabling him to rescue Betsy and take her back to the ship.
The natives return and try to board the ship.
After a fierce struggle, Rollo and Betsy try to escape in a small dinghy.
It starts to sink, and the natives swiftly overtake them in their canoes.
Just when all seems lost, a navy submarine surfaces right underneath them and they are saved.Chaplin plays an escaped convict who steals a minister's clothes to get out of his prison uniform.
He ends up in a small town mistaken for a parson, and accepts a position at the local church.
The Pilgrim's true identity is revealed when he tries to get a fellow crook to return money the crook stole from the Pilgrim's landlady.
But rather than incarcerate the Pilgrim, the sheriff releases him at the Mexican border.John Sterling  takes his young wife Lillie  to Java where he plans to invest in tea plantations.
Beyond the difference in years between the two, he is neglectful, which creates reactions of frustration from his romantic young wife.
Aboard a ship, Lillie witnesses a scene of cruelty – a passenger hits one of his servants.
The violent man is immediately taken by the beauty of this mysterious woman and will endeavor all to make her acquaintance.
Therefore, he contacts the husband, whom he attracts with his deep knowledge of the javanese tea market.
John presents his new friend, the young and handsome Prince de Gace  to his wife, who immediately recognizes the violent man.
Multiple situations offer the Prince a chance to approach Lillie, who spurns him.
He then uses force to kiss her - Lillie tries to talk to her husband, in vain.
In Java, the couple are hosted by the Prince, at this vast estate.
Lillie avoids being alone with the Prince – she even wishes to join her husband in his professional investigations, which he refuses.
Finally, Lillie and the Prince are alone for a few hours, and his efforts intensify.
He forces himself upon her again, and she finally yields and returns his kiss.
John returns to surprise the kiss in Chinese shadows, raising the question of whether the woman embracing De Gace is his wife.
His suspicion confirmed by a misplaced earring, the men go on a tiger hunt.
The Prince is hurt.
John decides to return to the US alone, but his wife reaffirms her love for him.The film is set during final days of Czarist Russia and revolves around a peasant who rises through the ranks of the Russian army ending up a Lieutenant.
His life is made increasingly difficult by the aristocrats and officers around him who are resentful of his progress.
He then finds himself rejected by a princess he falls in love with and, having been caught in her room, is put in prison.
There he is stripped of his rank but soon after the Russian Civil War starts and as a result of the Red Terror the tables are turned.The film tells the story of two childhood friends, a poor fisherman, Pete Quilliam , and a lawyer, Philip Christian .
Pete is in love with Kate , but when her father, Old Caesar , refuses to consent to their marriage, Pete sets off for Africa to make his fortune, asking Philip to take care of Kate until he returns.
In his absence, Kate and Philip fall in love.
When news reaches them that Pete was killed, they begin planning their lives together, as Philip prepares to assume the position of Deemster, the island's chief magistrate.
The news is false however, and Pete returns to the island a wealthy man.
Old Caesar agrees to let Kate marry him, and neither she nor Philip have it in them to break Pete's heart.
As the wedding party proceeds in an old mill, Old Caesar sternly warns the newlyweds to remember how serious the vows of marriage are.
Kate is still in love with Philip.
Shortly after a daughter is born, she decides to leave Pete, leaving him both the child and a note saying that she loves another man.
However, Philip is about to become the Deemster and is unwilling to give up his career for her.
Frustrated, she returns to Pete to take the baby, telling him that he is not the father, but he refuses to believe her or hand the child over.
Distraught, Kate leaves and attempts to commit suicide by throwing herself off the quay, a crime on the Isle of Man.
Kate is brought to trial on the first day that Philip serves as Deemster.
He is reluctant to sentence her, and when Pete appears in the courtroom to plead for his wife, he agrees to hand her over to him.
Kate refuses to go, and Old Caesar, who is watching, gets up and condemns Philip for being the "other man".
Philip admits this and leaves the court.
In the final scene, Philip and Kate prepare to leave the Isle of Man and come to Pete's house to pick up the baby.
In a shot reminiscent of the theater, Kate picks up the child, while Philip and Pete stand at opposite ends of the room.
She brings the child over to Pete to say one last goodbye, and he breaks down, having lost everything.
Philip and Kate leave the cottage to the jeers of the villagers, who have been watching the scene.Friendly neighborhood policeman Kennedy the Cop warns the gang to stay away from an old abandoned house in the neighborhood.
Instead, he suggests the kids go dig for buried treasure, which they proceed to do&mdash;in the basement of the old abandoned house.
The house is inhabited by a homeless lunatic, who takes giddy delight in scaring the children, particularly Farina.
Kennedy eventually turns up at the house to save the kids and apprehend the lunatic, but can hardly take care of himself.Kiki  ekes out a living selling newspapers on the streets of Paris.
When she learns that a chorus girl has been fired from the Folies Barbes revue managed by Victor Renal , she sets out to fulfill her dream and apply for the job.
Poverty stricken, she spends her rent money to buy suitable clothes.
She gets kicked out the first time, as she was not sent by the Agency, but manages to sneak back in.
While waiting in the reception area, she is mistaken for the secretary by an Agency applicant, who gives Kiki her letter of recommendation to present to Renal.
He mistakes it for Kiki's, and gives her an audition.
Her singing talent gets her the job.
Her debut, however, is a disaster.
She repeatedly gets in the way of the show's star and Renal's fiancee, Paulette Mascar .
Paulette finally pushes her, sending her crashing into a harp in the orchestra pit.
When Renal tries to separate the battling women, Paulette slaps him.
Renal also sends Kiki a letter of dismissal.
When she comes to see him, he feels sorry for her and gives her back her job.
He tries to hustle her out of his office, before Paulette enters, but Kiki refuses to leave.
As a result, Paulette and Renal have a falling out.
Renal decides to take Kiki to dinner.
Paulette goes out with Renal's financial backer, Baron Rapp , and ends up at the same restaurant.
Determined to humiliate her rival, Paulette invites herself to Renal's table and taunts Kiki into drinking several glasses of champagne.
Kiki becomes drunk, embarrassing Renal.
He deposits her in his limousine and asks where she lives.
As she has been evicted for not paying the rent, she confesses she has no place to go, so he takes her home.
He kisses her, but when he tries for more, she locks herself in his bedroom.
He is forced to sleep  in another room.
Each day, Renal decides to get rid of her, but each night he relents.
Meanwhile, Kiki intercepts Paulette's daily letters to him to prevent a reconciliation.
Renal finally learns about the letters from Rapp.
Rapp recommends he get back together with Paulette and offers to take Kiki off his hands.
Kiki mistakenly believes that Renal wants Paulette back, while Renal thinks in error that Kiki welcomes Rapp's attentions and greater wealth.
Kiki decides to go, taking only what she came with, but then changes her mind and decides to fight for her love.
After she threatens Paulette with a knife, Renal orders her to leave.
Thinking quickly, Kiki pretends to fall into a coma, convincing a doctor that she is a victim of catalepsy, which the doctor states might last up to two years.
Upon hearing this, Rapp makes a hasty departure.
Despite Paulette's urging to leave for a performance, Renal decides he cannot leave Kiki alone.
Once Paulette is gone, Kiki kisses Renal and confesses she loves him.
He embraces her.
The story follows the life of Robert Herne, who works in a coal mine, and his friendship with Maria Obal.
While working in the mine, he encounters an inhabitant of the planet Algol who gives him a prototype machine which can provide a virtually unlimited source of power.
Over the next year Herne sets up a factory providing energy; however, instead of simply relieving workers of the difficult job of mining, the device creates massive economic upheaval throughout the world.
Over the next 20 years, Herne continues to increase his power and influence, but he has lost touch with Maria who now lives in the one part of the world to which his influence does not extend.
The film follows the machinations of Herne’s son Reginald and his &ndash; ultimately unsuccessful &ndash; attempt at a coup, aiming to seize the secrets of the machine for himself.
Meanwhile, Maria has had a son who travels to meet Herne to ask for his assistance: his country's coal reserves have expired.
Herne initially refuses assistance; Maria visits him to ask in person.
He comes to realise the extent to which he has been corrupted by power.
In a moment of realisation, Herne destroys the machine, thereby preventing his son from taking control after his death.Madame L'Enigme  is a fortune-teller whose client Mario  recognises her as a woman who disappeared in a cloud of scandal after her husband's suicide.
{{See also}} Professor Appleby has terrorised his wife, Eleanor, but when he is murdered, and her lover, Derek goes missing, Eleanor suspects the worst.
A mysterious stranger, known as 'Mr Quinny' or 'Mr Quinn' appears, and begins to seduce Eleanor, but his alcoholism takes over and he dies.
Before dying, he reveals that he was Derek all along, and offers the girl to a rival, who promises to make Eleanor a happy wife.This plot also appears in the novelization, discussed above.Nellie Wayne  is a novelist who lost her husband to a vamp, who thereupon rejected him to marry another man, who subsequently was enticed away by the novelist, who...Dancing Mothers is a tale of a pretty mother, who was almost cheated out of life by a heartless husband and a thoughtless daughter.La Crosse Tribune and Leader, March 24, 1926A man is put on trial for the murder on his best friend.
A young attorney wants to become successful and decides to defend him.
However, he is very inexperienced.A government official, Count Muffat, falls under the spell of Nana, a young actress.
She becomes his mistress, living in the sumptuous apartment which he provides for her.
Instead of elevating herself to Muffat's level, however, Nana drags the poor man down to hers - in the end, both lives have been utterly destroyed.
Jack Powell and David Armstrong are rivals in the same small American town, both vying for the attentions of pretty Sylvia Lewis.
Jack fails to realize that "the girl next door", Mary Preston, is desperately in love with him.
The two young men both enlist to become combat pilots in the Air Service.
When they leave for training camp, Jack mistakenly believes Sylvia prefers him.
She actually prefers David and lets him know about her feelings, but is too kindhearted to turn down Jack's affection.
Jack and David are billeted together.
Their tent mate is Cadet White, but their acquaintance is all too brief; White is killed in an air crash the same day.
Undaunted, the two men endure a rigorous training period, where they go from being enemies to best friends.
Upon graduating, they are shipped off to France to fight the Germans.
Mary joins the war effort by becoming an ambulance driver.
She later learns of Jack's reputation as an ace and encounters him while on leave in Paris.
She finds him, but he is too drunk to recognize her.
She puts him to bed, but when two Military Police barge in while she is innocently changing from a borrowed dress back into her uniform in the same room, she is forced to resign and return to America.
The climax of the story comes with the epic Battle of Saint-Mihiel.
David is shot down and presumed dead.
However, he survives the crash landing, steals a German biplane, and heads for the Allied lines.
By a tragic stroke of bad luck, he is spotted and shot down by Jack, who is bent on avenging his friend.
When Jack lands to pick up a souvenir, he becomes distraught when he learns what he has done, but before David dies, he forgives his comrade.
With the end of the war, Jack returns home to a hero's welcome.
When he returns David's effects to his grieving parents, David's mother blames the war, not Jack, for her son's death.
Then, Jack is reunited with Mary and realizes he loves her.The various boys of the gang each manage to escape their responsibilities for the day, meeting up to build a raft for their pirate game.Richard and Karl are German prisoners of war in Siberia.
Since escape is almost impossible, they are unguarded and live an almost idyllic existence running a ferry.
Richard misses his wife Anna greatly; he literally counts the days since he's seen her and tells Karl about her and their home in detail.
When he decides to escape, Karl comes with him.
While crossing a desert Richard collapses.
He asks Karl to go on without him, but Karl refuses to leave his friend and carries him.
But when Karl leaves to get water, Richard is recaptured and sent to work in a lead mine.
Karl makes it back to Hamburg, where he meets Anna and occupies a spare room in her flat.
Soon friendship deepens, and both he and Anna have guilt feelings about their attraction.
Meanwhile the war ends, and Richard returns just in time to witness Karl and Anna's first kiss.
After his initial anger, Richard goes to Anna's bed.
She cries; he takes her in his arms; she returns his embrace; but when he begins to make love to her, she refuses his advances.
Richard returns to the room where Karl pretends to be asleep.
He takes a pistol and prepares to kill Karl; but as he holds the gun to Karl's head, he recalls his friend's carrying him across the desert and puts the pistol away.
Realizing that "Nobody's to blame," Richard leaves Karl and Anna to each other and returns to his other great passion, life at sea on one of the great freighters that sail from Hamburg.Dog Star Peter the Great woofs through the title role as the only witness to the murder of Barbara Jane's stepfather.Piedmont Mumblethunder  is embarrassed at the effeminacy of his kilt-wearing Scottish nephew Philip .Two schoolteachers, married for love, are parted by the husband's obsessive desire for wealth and social position.This drama features a romance between two different teenagers: a young atheist girl, Judith Craig, and the male head of a Christian youth organization, Bob Hathaway.
The two leaders and their groups attack each other, starting a riot that kills a young girl.
Followed by a goofy boy, Bozo, the three are thrown into a juvenile prison with a cruel head guard and bad living conditions.
The film maker makes a point of talking about the truth of prison cruelty in the middle of the movie.
Bob, who is in love with Judy, eventually rescues her and takes shelter in an old farm where Judy, breathtaken by the romance and beauty of the forest, realizes there must be a God.
They are found and taken back to prison and held in solitary confinement until a fire breaks out.
Mame is Judy's new friend who is trying to get her out before she burns.
But the rest of the prison girls escape.
Bob, who is trusting in God to help them, finally rescues Judy with the help of Mame and Bozo; they also rescue the cruel head guard who pleads for his life and, as he is dying, sets them free for their kind act and rescue.
At the very end, Bozo and Mame seem to end up together while Bob and Judy and their rekindled faith ride off together as the movie ends.Captain Fitzgerald , a retired guardsman on a modest pension, has to support three daughters: Theodora  and her older half-sisters.
Theodora's sisters pin their hopes on her marrying a wealthy man.
One day, Theodora goes out on a rowboat off the coast of Dorset and falls into the water.
She is rescued by Lord Hector Bracondale .
He is young, handsome and wealthy, but "not the marrying kind".
Out of a sense of duty to her beloved father, she reluctantly agrees to wed the middle-aged, short, stout Josiah Brown , a former grocer's assistant who is now a multi-millionaire.
They honeymoon in the Alps.
By coincidence, Bracondale stops at the same inn.
Rich American widow Jane McBride  persuades the young bride to accompany her on a climbing excursion.
Theodora slips and dangles precariously by her safety line over a cliff.
Bracondale appears and climbs down to her, but they are too heavy for the others to pull up.
Bracondale has them lower him and Theodora to a ledge below.
While they wait for more help to arrive, Theodora tells Bracondale  where they last met.
They meet a third time in Paris, and finally acknowledge their love for each other.
However, Theodora refuses to run away with Bracondale.
Bracondale strives to do the right thing.
He asks his sister, Lady Anningford , to befriend Theodora.
Lady Anningford invites the Browns to her country estate.
Bracondale, however, cannot stay away.
He tries once again to persuade Theodora to change her mind, without success.
Meanwhile, Josiah is persuaded by another guest, renowned explorer Sir Lionel Grey, to fund his dangerous expedition.
Bracondale leaves, and Josiah is called away on business.
Theodora writes a letter to each; to Bracondale, she declares her love, but stresses once more that it cannot be fulfilled.
Morella Winmarleigh , who desires Bracondale for herself, secretly opens the letters and, after perusing them, switches them.
After Bracondale reads the message meant for Josiah, he rushes to stop Josiah from reading his, but is too late.
Josiah accuses Bracondale of stealing his wife, but the nobleman denies that Theodora has been unfaithful.
After further consideration, Josiah decides to put his wife's happiness ahead of his own and joins Grey's expedition to Northern Africa.
His death makes it possible for the young lovers to be together.Dolly  is a stagestruck girl who gets her career petered out until she displays show-must-go-on courage by standing-in as target in a knife-throwing act.At the instigation of his half brother Lionel , Oliver Tressilian , a wealthy baronet, is shanghaied and blamed for the death of Peter Godolphin , brother of Oliver's fiancée, whom Lionel actually has slain.
At sea Oliver is captured by Spaniards and made a galley slave, but when he escapes to the Moors he becomes Sakr-el-Bahr, the scourge of Christendom.
Learning of Rosamund's  impending marriage to his half brother, he kidnaps both of them, but to avoid the risk of giving her to Asad-ed-Din , the Basha of Algiers, he surrenders to a British ship.
Rosamund intercedes to save his life, and following the death of Lionel they are married.After the gang wreaks havoc in the local cobbler’s shop, the friendly cobbler takes them on a picnic, during which his old Model T breaks down.
While the cobbler goes to the creek to fetch water for the radiator, the gang tries to do all sorts of repairs on the car, causing more problems.
Mickey and Jack accidentally disturb the rest of a sleeping hobo, who tries to punish them by doing them serious bodily harm.
After Buster the Dog chases the hobo off, the gang gets the car going again by rigging it with a sail and they sail off into the sunset.Arden Stuart  believes that a single standard of conduct should apply to both sexes.
She strives for a combination of freedom, equality, and honesty in love.
Her first attempt is with chauffeur Anthony Kendall, who is secretly a disillusioned "ace aviator" and son of a lord.
However their romance ends in disaster; he commits suicide when he is fired because of it.
Her longtime admirer Tommy Hewlett  wants to marry her, but Arden finds fulfillment in a chance encounter with Packy Cannon , a wealthy ex-prizefighter turned painter.
He had planned to cruise the South Seas on his yacht alone, but she impulsively goes with him.
After months of idyllic bliss however, he turns around and takes her home, explaining that he needs his full attention for his painting.
Though Tommy knows of Arden's love for Packy, he begs her to marry him anyway.
She agrees.
Several years go by, and they have a much-beloved son.
However, Packy returns and admits to Arden that he could not stop thinking about her.
She is swept away and agrees to sail away with him.
Tommy confronts his rival with a gun; he orders Packy to pretend to reject Arden, promising to arrange a hunting "accident" for himself, so that Arden can be with Packy without a scandal that would hurt his son.
Meanwhile, Arden comes to realize that their child means more to her than anyone else.
She tells Packy she cannot go with him.
Tommy, unaware of this latest development, arranges his shooting accident, but Arden figures it out in time.Retired CID inspector Angus Blake tries to catch a jewel thief named The Queen of Diamonds from stealing a valuable ring  from Lord Blanton.A boastful and proud yet abusive fisherman by the name of Daniel Gibbs ([[Walter Long  leaves his wife Sympathy  to go on a fishing expedition with other villagers from their village of Urkey and is lost at sea.
Two men survive, one villager and a mysterious Chinese stranger named Yen Sin .
Being Chinese and refusing to take part in Christian service for those lost, he is made an outcast and forced to live on a small boat in the harbor.
He makes his living doing laundry from his boat, and is soon greeted by the new minister, John Malden , who tries unsuccessfully to convert him.
Love blossoms between Reverend Malden and Sympathy, and they are soon married, to the chagrin of the wealthiest member of the village, Nate Snow .
Sympathy soon befriends Yen Sin after she observes several kids taunting him in the street.
Snow concocts a blackmail scheme by resurrecting Sympathy's lost husband Daniel in a letter demanding payment to keep quiet.
Malden receives the letter just before going on a trip with Snow, and leaves the now pregnant Sympathy with this serious development on his mind.
Yen Sin tells Malden to be sure and get his laundry done by using his friend Sam Low, who turns out to be a very good informant for Yen Sin.
While he is away, their baby is born, and he now decides to pay the blackmail money in order to preserve his new family.
Malden, upon his return, is so distraught that he resigns from the ministry, and asks Snow if he can borrow money from him to pay off Gibbs.
Snow does not get to enjoy the benefits of his deception as Yen Sin exposes the blackmail plot in order to save the young couple, revealing everything while on his deathbed.Jerry Fay , is a bootlegger who expropriates the home of society girl, June , for his illicit activities.
While as his captor, June slowly begins to fall for Jerry.Stan and Ollie are two sailors on leave who happen upon two attractive girls strolling throughut a park.
The sailors invite the ladies for a soda, but soon realize that they only have enough money for three people.
Ollie spends an eternity trying to explain this fact to Stan, who cannot grasp that either he or Ollie will have to forgo a soda.
Deperate, Stan deposits a coin in a slot machine in the soda shop and ends up hitting the jackpot.
With excess money in hand, the boys rent a canoe with the ladies, which results in an all-out battle-royal with other boaters.The story is a melodrama concerning two lovers who are kept apart by the woman's strict parents, who lock her in her house.Singer Nora  left her husband for new flame Larry ; her husband's suicide cools the affair, and the pair meets again when, years later, Larry meets and falls in love with Nora's daughter.16-year-old Genevieve 'Ginger' King , is growing up in the boring town of Orange Springs, Florida where having a soda with a boy is scandalous.
Because of her behavior and yearning for a thrilling life her father decides to send her to a boarding school, which is run by strict disciplinarian Mrs. Paddles .
Despite the strictness, the girls have fun getting into flapper lifestyle trouble including flirting.
Richard Channing , an older man, rides past the seminary every day, prompting romantic fantasies among the school girls.
When 16-year-old Ginger connives a sleigh ride with Channing, she tells him she's 'almost twenty'.
She ends up falling for him.
Ginger gets in trouble with the headmistress when she sneaks out to the local country club where Channing is having a party.
One of her schoolmates named Hortense  tells on her, but her motive is to get the headmistress out of the way so she can rob the school's safe and sneak away with her crooked boyfriend Thomas Morran .
Thanks to a vague note Ginger goes to a hotel in New York on her way home from school where Hortense and her boyfriend are.
They force her to take the suitcases back with her.
The suitcases end up containing the valuables, which include fancy clothes and jewels.
Knowing that Channing has gone to Orange Springs on a yachting trip, Ginger decides to use the clothes and jewels and pretend to be a woman of the world when she goes home.
The plan backfires, and her father believes she is lying when she says its a joke.
Detectives show up wanting to know why she has stolen loot, and both her young admirer, Bill, and Channing think she has really become a wicked woman.Captain January  is a young girl who lives in a lighthouse in Maine with her guardian, Jeremiah "Daddy" Judkins .
Judkins, who is the lighthouse keeper, rescued January from a shipwreck when she was an infant.
The only clue to the baby's identity was a locket with a photograph of a woman around her neck, so Judkins adopted her as his own daughter.
January helps Judkins with his tasks around the lighthouse.
As Judkins' heart begins to fail and his health worsens, these tasks become increasingly more complicated and important.
In one instance, January must ascend to the top of the lighthouse by herself to light the lamps.
The local townsfolk become skeptical of Judkins' ability to care for the girl, and try to have her taken away.
January is saved from the orphanage by a chance meeting with Isabelle Morton , an affluent young woman who comes to visit the lighthouse.
She believes that January looks familiar; when she sees the photograph in the locket, she identifies January as her late sister's child.
Isabelle wishes to adopt January and reunite her with her blood relatives.
Faced with his poor health and the scrutiny of the townspeople, Judkins agrees.
However, the girl is miserable in her new surroundings, runs away, and finds her way back to the lighthouse.
Judkins and the Morton family finally devise a means to make everyone happy: January returns to the Mortons, and Judkins is employed on the family's yacht, ensuring that he will always be able to visit his former daughter.Irene Bordoni is cast as Vivienne Rolland, a Parisian chorus girl in love with Massachusetts boy Andrew Sabbot  Andrew's snobbish mother Cora  tries to break up the romance, and it is her scenes which give the film what little life it has.
Jack Buchanan likewise makes his talking-picture debut as Guy Pennell, the leading man in Vivienne's revue.The film depicts a young woman  granted the ability to see into her future, including her future with different men.Arthur Merrill is a roué who continues to celebrate his rejuvenation surgery by taking a girl home - but she turns out to be the sweetheart of his son.The film tells of Harry  a ne'er-do-well who falls in love with Betty .
{{cite book}} Harry participates in a cross country foot race hoping to win prize money in hopes of marrying her.Drawn from the play of the same name by Maurine Dallas Watkins which was in turn based on the true story of Beulah Annan, fictionalized as Roxie Hart , and her spectacular murder of her boyfriend.
The silent film adds considerably to the material in Watkins' play, some additions based on the original murder, and some to Hollywood considerations.
The murder, which occurs in a very brief vignette before the play begins, is fleshed out considerably.
Also, Roxie's husband Amos Hart  has a much more sympathetic and active role in the film than he does either in the play or in the subsequent musical.
The ending is more cruel to Roxie, in keeping with Hollywood values of not allowing criminals to profit too much from their crimes .
The film was long difficult to see, but a recent print was made available from the UCLA Film and Television Archive, enabling the film to play at festivals and historic theaters around the country.
This has greatly improved the reputation of the film.Chicago at silentera.com database Also a print of the film survives at Gosfilmofond Russian State Archives.Nicholas Van Alstyne is the richest man in New York, but he is very disappointed in the behavior of his son, Bertie, who stays out all night gambling and partying, and who seems to show no talent or interest in work.
In fact, Bertie is feigning this behavior because he believes it will help to impress the girl of his dreams, his adopted sister Agnes.
Unfortunately, it helps him to do nothing more than get disowned by his father.
Bertie's sister, Rose, is married to an unsuccessful lawyer named Mark, who is admired by Van Alstyne but in fact is a troublemaker.
He has a mistress named Henrietta and an illegitimate child with her.
When Henrietta dies after a long illness, a letter is sent to him informing him about the present circumstances.
Mark manages to claim the letter is actually Bertie's, breaking Agnes' heart and ensuring Van Alstyne never wants to speak to his son again.
Soon after, when Van Alstyne goes away on business he leaves Mark in charge of running the family's finances, but Mark plots to claim the family fortunes himself by selling off all their shares of stock.
Bertie inadvertently saves the day by buying back all of the stock without realizing what he is doing.
When Van Alstyne sees what has happened he forgives Bertie and allows him to marry Agnes.
Mark, meanwhile, conveniently dies of a heart attack when he realizes that his scheme has failed.
The film ends a year later, with the birth of Bertie and Agnes' twin children.In 1895, champion horse racer and livery stable owner Hank Armstrong  is greatly disturbed by the advent of the "horseless carriage" in Maple City.
He mocks Elmer Hays, a car manufacturer, when he states in a public lecture that the days of the horse are numbered and that a car will one day go 30 miles an hour.
However, Armstrong's efforts are in vain.
He quarrels with his friends when they start purchasing the machines and is only stopped from horsewhipping his own car-mad son Bob  by the timely appearance of Bob's girlfriend Rose Robbins .
Bob leaves to find a job in nearby Detroit.
There, he is present when famed driver Barney Oldfield  breaks the speed record, driving a mile in a minute .
Meanwhile, Hank goes bankrupt and has to sell off all his possessions to satisfy his creditors.
One day in 1905, Bob returns without telling his father to compete in the first car race in the county.
A jealous rival for Rose's affections convinces Hank to tamper with a car on display so that it will explode.
When Bob sends Rose to bring his father to the race, Hank is horrified to discover he has sabotaged his son's car.
They hurry to the track, but are too late.
Bob's car crashes and burns.
Hank is convinced he has killed Bob and burns down his livery stable, but Rose brings word that Bob is expected to live.
Relieved, Hank gives up his hopeless resistance and joins his son in his car manufacturing company.Marie St. Clair and her beau, aspiring artist Jean Millet, plan to leave their small French village for Paris, where they will marry.
On the night before their scheduled departure, Marie climbs down from her second-floor bedroom for a rendezvous with Jean.
Her stepfather sees them strolling down a lane and locks her out of the house.
When the couple returns, Jean furiously knocks on the front door and reminds the older man that he's locked out his daughter.
The stepfather dismisses Jean's complaint and tells Marie, "Perhaps  will give you a bed for the night."
Jean does invite Marie to his home, but he makes it clear that he lives with his parents and his mother will fix a bed for Marie.
It turns out that Jean's parents are not thrilled with their son's romance with Marie, either.
Marie goes to the train station, with Jean promising to follow her.
But Jean's father has died while sitting in his chair in front of the fireplace, and when Jean telephones Marie at the station to tell her he can't go with her to Paris, she gets on the train and makes the trip alone.
In Paris, Marie enjoys a life of luxury as the mistress of wealthy businessman Pierre Revel.
One night when Marie is alone in the apartment Revel has provided for her, a friend calls and invites her to a raucous party in the Latin Quarter.
The friend gives Marie the address, but admits that she can't remember whether the apartment is in the building on the right or the left.
Marie, arriving by taxi, enters the wrong building and is surprised to be greeted by Jean Millet.
Marie tells Jean she would like for him to paint her portrait and gives him a card with her address.
Jean calls on Marie at her apartment to begin the painting, and Marie notices he is wearing a black armband.
She asks why he is in mourning, and Jean tells her his father has died.
Marie asks when and Jean replies, "The night you left."
Marie and Jean revive their romance, and Marie begins to distance herself from Pierre Revel.
Pierre knows about Jean but also realizes that Marie has become fond of the luxuries she enjoys as his mistress.
Jean finishes Marie's portrait, but instead of painting her wearing the elegant outfit she chose for the sitting, he outfits her in the simple dress she wore on the night she left for Paris.
Jean proposes to Marie.
Marie tells Pierre she'll be leaving soon, but Pierre isn't so sure.
Jean's mother, with whom he shares the simple Paris apartment, argues with him about marrying Marie.
Jean starts to leave in anger but, after opening the door, leaves the door ajar as he goes to apologize to his mother.
He tells his mother the proposal was spur-of-the-moment and not serious.
Marie happens to arrive unexpectedly outside Jean's apartment at that moment.
A chastened Marie returns to Pierre Revel.
Jean fails to convince Marie he didn't mean what she overheard him say to his mother in an attempt to appease the older woman.
One night Jean slips a gun into his coat pocket and goes to the exclusive restaurant where Marie and Pierre are dining.
Jean asks the maitre d' to give Marie a note asking her to meet him one last time.
Pierre sees the note and invites Jean to join them.
Jean and Pierre get into a scuffle and Jean is ejected from the dining room.
Jean stands by the fountain in the restaurant's foyer, pulls out the gun and fatally shoots himself.
The police carry Jean's body to his apartment.
Jean's mother retrieves the gun and goes to Marie's apartment.
Marie's maid tells her that Marie has gone to her son's studio.
Jean's mother returns to the apartment and finds Marie kneeling by Jean's body and sobbing.
Jean's mother is touched by Marie's display of grief.
The two women reconcile and return to the French countryside, where they open a home for orphans in a country cottage.
One morning Marie and one of the girls in her care walk down the lane to get a pail of milk.
Marie and the girl meet a group of sharecroppers with a horse-drawn wagon, who offer them a ride back in the wagon.
At the same time, Pierre Revel and another gentleman are riding through the French countryside in a chauffeur-driven automobile.
Pierre's companion asks him, "What ever happened to that Marie St.
Clair?"
Pierre replies that he doesn't know.
Pierre's automobile and the horse-drawn wagon then pass each other, heading in opposite directions.J.
Harold Manners  is a millionaire playboy who accidentally finds himself in the poor part of town one day.
There, he unknowingly gives a man enough money to start a religious mission.
Once he hears that a mission was started in his name, he goes there to tell them to take his name off since  he didn't have anything to do with it.
Once there, however, he falls for the Downtown Girl, Hope  who works in Brother Paul's  rebuilt mission.
In order to build up attendance, and win Hope's attention, Harold runs through town causing trouble, and winds up with a crowd chasing him right into the mission.
He eventually wins the girl and they marry, but not without some interference from his high-brow friends.Adventures of an English duke-diplomat, mythical kingdom royalty and revolution on the shores of the Mediterranean.Three US soldiers  are lost in the Rhineland on Armistice Day and accepted as conquering overlords by a village... except for Lady Bountiful .Socialite Anatol Spencer , finding his relationship with his wife  lackluster, goes in search of excitement.
After bumping into old flame Emilie , he lets an apartment for her only to find that she cheats on him.
He is subsequently robbed, conned, and booted from pillar to post.
He decides to return to his wife and discovers her carousing with his best friend Max .Mary Jane's mother owns the village store, and finds her business suffering because her landlord runs a competing shop right across the street and is threatening eviction.
Ernie and Pat, with the help of their pets, lure the skinflint's customers away by various means.In the 18th century, a small Tatar village celebrates the Sabantuy festival.
Orthodox monks accompanied by soldiers appear to forcibly baptize the population of the village.
Locals resist and soldiers commit a punitive action.
The wife of peasant Bulat is killed by soldiers, his son Asfan is carried off.
Bulat stays alone with another son, Asma.
15 years after Bulat and Asma joined the Pugachev rebellion and Bulat became famous as a defender of paupers.
But his son Asfan, who was reared among nobles, received a commission and led a punitive force directed to suppress a rebellion in his motherland.Quincy Adams Sawyer is a young attorney who one day meets a girl in the park.
He is immediately smitten with her, but is summoned to the village of Mason's Corners by his father's friend Deacon Pettengill to investigate a villain lawyer before he can pursue her.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Putnam, an old woman, is being swindled by this villain lawyer, Obadiah Strout.
Putnam's daughter Lindy, a natural vamp, attempts to seduce Sawyer.
He shows interest, until he finds out who the girl from the parc is: Alice, Pettengill's niece who has become blind since their first meeting.
Despite her being visionally impaired, Sawyer falls in love with Alice and they romance each other.
Meanwhile, Strout attempts to scare away Sawyer and convinces Abner Stiles, who once committed a murder, that Sawyer is in town to investigate him.
Lindy, on the other hand, tries to get rid of Alice and, with the help from Strout, Lindy lures her onto a boat, after which the rope is cut.
The little boat is sent adrift and she is off to the water falls.
Lindy is initially glad to lose Alice, but soon regrets her decision.
She rushes to Quincy and tells him the entire truth.
Quincy, fearing Alice's death, runs to the water falls and rescues her from a fatal fall.
Overcome by excitement, Alice's vision is restored and she is reunited with Sawyer.
Her father is unaware that his daughter has been saved and becomes convinced that Strout has killed her.
He grabs a revolver and attempts to shoot Strout, but he appears to have arrived too late.
Stiles, who realized he was being lied to, has killed Strout in a rage.
{{cite web}}<ref namehttp://www.lonchaney.org/filmography/131.html |title2010-01-15|work=A Lon Chaney website}}Max Haber , a small town barber, is the pride of his father, Johann, who owns an antiquated barbershop.
Max adores Kitty Laverne , the manicurist, who loves him but aspires to be a dancer and leaves for New York, hoping that he will follow in pursuit of better things.
Mrs. Jackson-Greer, a New York society matron, has occasion to note Max fashioning the hair of a town girl and induces him to come to New York and pose as a French count.
There he meets April, Mrs. King's niece, and loses his heart to her, as well as to Kitty, now a showgirl.
At the theater where Kitty is appearing Max is the best-dressed man in April's party, but later at a nightclub Kitty exposes him, and he is deserted by his society friends.
Disillusioned, Max returns home at the request of his father.
Kitty follows, realizing that he needs her.The barn dance of the title is the occasion which brings together Minnie Mouse and her two suitors: Mickey and Peg-Leg Pete.
The latter two and their vehicles are first seen arriving at Minnie's house in an attempt to pick her up for the dance.
Mickey turns up in his horse-cart while Pete in a newly purchased automobile.
Minnie initially chooses Pete to drive her to the dance but the automobile unexpectedly breaks down.
She resorts to accepting Mickey's invitation.
They are later seen dancing together, but Mickey proves to be a rather clumsy dancer as he repeatedly steps on Minnie's feet.
She consequently turns down his invitation for a second dance.
She instead accepts that of Pete, who proves to be a better dancing partner.
Mickey then attempts to solve his problem by placing a balloon in his shorts.
That apparently helps him to be "light on his feet" and he proceeds to ask Minnie for another dance.
She accepts and is surprised to find his dancing skills to have apparently improved.
Pete soon discovers Mickey's trick and points it out to Minnie.
Minnie is visibly disgusted by this attempt at deception.
As a result, she leaves Mickey and resumes dancing with Pete, leaving Mickey crying on the floor.
This short is notable for featuring Mickey turned down by Minnie in favor of Pete.
It is also an unusual appearance of the Pete character; previously depicted as a menacing villain, he is portrayed here as a well-mannered gentleman.
In addition, Mickey was not depicted as a hero but as a rather ineffective young suitor.
In his sadness and crying over his failure, Mickey appears unusually emotional and vulnerable.Dr.
Stanislaus Pyckle, , successfully separates the good and evil of man's nature with the use of a powerful drug .
Transforming into the personality of Mr.
Pride , he terrorizes the town with unspeakable acts including stealing a boy’s ice cream, cheating at marbles, and popping a bag behind a lady pedestrian.
The towns people track him down where Mr.
Pride locks himself in the laboratory and transforms back at Dr. Pyckle.
The doctor assures the townspeople that he hasn't seen the "fiend" they were after.
While he talks, the drug used for the transformation spills in the plate of food of the doctor's dog.
Dr. Pyckle confronts the fiendish dog when he locks the door and the townspeople leave.
But once again, Mr.
Pride emerges and brings havoc to the town, and again is chased down by the townspeople.
He enters the lab and transforms back into Pyckle, and again assures the townspeople he hasn't seen the fiend.
His assistant  begs the doctor to open and comfort him, but he transforms back into Mr.
Pride.
He opens the door to the assistant and locks it again.
She screams seeing Pride and the townspeople hurry back, before the assistant can knock Pride down.
The appearance of the fiendish Mr.
Pride is an obvious spoof on the make-up designed for John Barrymore as Mr. Hyde.
Also spoofed are the sudden and strange movements Barrymore's Jekyll makes during the transformation, as well as Hyde's confrontation with Millicent, Jekyll's fiancee, when Hyde lets her inside the lab.
Other scenes show obvious parodies of other Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde films (e.g.
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and [[Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde .A man returns from a trip to Peru rich and looking for a wife.
While still single he has a real estate agent show him a house or two.
The agent invites him to dinner then him  and his wife start bickering, causing the poor fellow to rethink marriage over.
He decides he wants to share his home with someone so he has his agent's sister-in-law move in.
Later on they both fell in love.Captain Winslow takes a revolutionary new clipper ship, built by his father, on its first voyage, and Mickey Murphy is found stowing away in a burlap sack.
While in China, Winslow attends a dinner hosted by a wealthy Chinese merchant and rescues English maiden Lady Jocelyn Huntington from rioting beggars.
Winslow agrees to a race from China to Boston against an English clipper ship.
He wins the race and Lady Jocelyn.Peter  is a chivalrous idealist who seeks to win the heart of Amy , who in turn fancies urbane Harry .
Jane  is a Prohibition agent who helps uncover illegal bootleg activities.The mill of an old woman and her ward, Faith Newton , is being terrorized by the masked menace of the title known as "Still Face".
The women are helped by a man named Keats Dodd .
The masked villain's identity is revealed in the final chapter.Richard Gaylor Jr. ([[Richard Dix  is a modern Lothario who has so many sweethearts that his father does not know what to do with him.
Tired of paying to get his son out of one romantic entanglement after another, Richard Gaylor Sr.  sends his son to the Basque region of France, believing that the women there will only accept attentions from their own people.
Almost immediately, a local girl, Yvonne Hurja ([[Frances Howard  becomes infatuated with Richard, who she sees as being able to help her break free from the unwanted attention of local guardsman Julio .
A rivalry grows between Richard and Julio.The wealthy matriarch Dona Bernarda Brull  is irritated by her son Rafael's infatuation with the orange farmer's  daughter, Leonora .
She forbids him to see her, something that causes Leonora great heartache, to say nothing of her family's financial condition.
Using the singing talent cultivated by her wannabe father Pedro, Leonara leaves her humble home to later become a sensation on the stages of Paris, as La Brunna, where nobleman and other rich gentleman express their approval of her "talents".
Meanwhile, back in their small Spanish town of Alcira, Valencia where Leonora's father has died, Dona Bernarda Brull's domineering influence has brought Rafael to the brink of being elected to office.
She's also arranged for her son to marry the wealthy Remedios Matías , the daughter of a rich hog farmer .
However, just before both of these events are realized, La Brunna returns to her humble beginnings to visit her mother Pepa  and barber friend Cupido .
Incognito, she gives Rafael the impression that she is still poor, and nearly destitute.
When the proud soon to be elected official visits Cupido, Leonara reveals that she is the famous La Brunna.
Naturally, he is irresistibly drawn to her, which though it doesn't keep his inevitable election from happening, it does threaten his marriage to Remedios ... that is until his mother intervenes once again.
Some time after the flood , though not on that particular night, Leonara and Rafael spend a night of passion together amidst the orange groves, Dona Bernarda Brull visits Pepa to tell her of the shame which has been brought upon her home.
La Brunna returns to her life on the stage in Madrid while Rafael marries Remedios.
Shortly afterwards however, Rafael follows his Leonara to declare his undying love for her once again, seemingly ready to throw away his life for her.
She is thrilled and, with her maid , packs her bags to await his return.
Rafael's wise lawyer friend Don Andrés  intervenes on behalf of his mother and the community he serves to convince him to do otherwise, and Leonara is alone again.
Years pass and a much older looking Rafael visits La Brunna, who doesn't appear to have aged since last they met.
This time he is ready to leave his wife and children for her, but she is unwilling to be the cause of it.
He returns to his home looking over his sleeping little ones while La Brunna completes another performance with adoring fans.
In the end La Brunna sits alone forlornly thinking of love lost as the credits roll.Betty Dallas is a passenger on a stagecoach that is held up by an outlaw named, The Solitaire Kid .
Ranger Jim Lockhart, , who is Betty's sweetheart, is in pursuit of The Solitaire Kid, and in the end, as the two men face one another, there is a mortal shoot-out.The movie starts in Belgium in the early 1900s.
Jeanne  is the 10-year-old daughter of Louise .
Troubles start when Louise remarries a selfish but rich man named Elton Reeves .
He convinces her to move to America and leave Jeanne behind in Belgium to live with the maid Marie .
At first Louise refuses to, but eventually gives in and leaves Jeanne in the care of Marie.
Five years pass and Jeanne and Marie bonded.
Meanwhile, Louise hated living in America and feels guilty having left her kid behind.
She returns to Belgium to reunite with Jeanne, but Marie doesn't want to give her up.
When Louise finally arrives, Marie lies to her Jeanne drowned in a river nearby.
Louise is devastated and collapses, before returning to America.
This results in estranging from Elton.
World War I broke out.
Marie fears for Jeanne's safety and brings her to America to live with her mother.
After an emotional goodbye, Jeanne sets out for America to find her mother.
Along the way she meets two orphan boys and decides to take care of them.
When she finally arrives in America, she travels to Louise's big mansion.
Too afraid to tell her she is her daughter, Jeanne applies to serve as her maid.
While pretending to be someone else, she gets to know her mother.
However, she has trouble keeping up the lie and wants nothing more but have a reconciliation.
Waiting for the right time to tell the truth, Jeanne hopes everything will come to a right end.
When guests of the mansion plot to fleece Elton, Jeanne is forced to reveal her true identity to save the day.
A happy reunion follows.Jan  is a Swedish farmer and Glory  is his beloved daughter, who saves him from bankruptcy by eloping to the big city with their rapacious landlord, driving Jan to madness.A young servant girl is seduced and raped by an older middle class man in Victorian England when employed in his household.
After moving on with her path, she gets married.
All is well until her husband discovers her past.
This fact prompts her on a life of wandering, murder, and execution.Jack  is a young man who has a wild lifestyle.
This displeases his father.
Jack wants to prove to him he can be a hardworking man as well and decides to find work at a railroad yard as a laborer.
Silent Bill Brachley is a convict who has escaped jail and steals Jack's car.
Jack chases him and eventually meets Mary .
Brachley is led back to jail and swears revenge.
He escapes jail yet again and confronts Jack.
After Jack wins the fight, he receives the respect from his father and has Mary as his sweetheart.New York Times OverviewAlthough being engaged against her will with a wealthy man, Princess Orsolini  is in love with Captain Kovacs , a cavalry officer she is secretly meeting.
Her mother Eugenie , who has found out about the affair forces her to dump Kovacs and take part in the arranged marriage.
Though not believing her own words, Orsolini reluctantly tells Kovacs she cannot ever fall in love with a man with his social position, being the son of a peasant.
Feeling deeply hurt, Kovacs decides to take revenge by indulging in blackmail, spreading a rumor that he is an imposter and a swindler.
The queen fears a scandal and invites herself over to his apartment to retrieve any prove of Orsolini and Kovacs' affair, including love letters.
In the end, Kovacs agrees on remaining quiet by having Orsolini spend the night with him.
True love is finally reconciled.<ref namehttp://www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title.jsp?stidFull Synopsis |title2010-01-16|work=Turner Classic Movies}}Boulevardier Sir Nicholas Thormonde  has to choose between Suzette, a nasty lady  and his virtuous secretary Alathea  in wartime Paris.Buster plays a drifter who cons his way into working at an amusement park shooting gallery.
Believing Buster is an expert marksman, both the murderous gang the Blinking Buzzards and the man they want to kill end up hiring him.
The film ends with a wild chase through a house filled with secret passages.The father of an heiress dies leaving her destitute.
She falls in with a group of hobos traveling incognito cross country dressed as a man.The film takes a behind-the-scenes look at the romantic lives of three chorus girls and the way their preferences in men affect their lives.
Sally, Irene and Mary at Silentera.com databaseA young Spaniard is shanghaied by the Captain of the ship.
While on board he meets and falls in love with a female member of the crew who is initially dressed as a man.Heiress Billie Brown, , is engaged to marry her longtime sweetheart, budding diplomat, Gil Jordan, .
When Billie goes to see senior diplomat, Glenn Abbott, , about ensuring that Gil get a favorable assignment, Billie and Glenn are undeniably attracted to one another.
Gil is likewise attracted to Kentucky Strafford, , Billie's houseguest, who becomes pregnant by Gil.
Gil finds that he loves Kentucky, but marries Billie instead.
Once Gil finds that Billie really loves Glenn and Billie finds that Gil loves Kentucky, their marriage is annulled and both are paired up with the people they truly love.The film is set in Minas Gerais in the 19th century, as it the story of a powerful farmer Luiz Roldão  who attempts to force a marriage between his son Jorge  and Rosita, from the Bento's family, to unite their families for economic reasons.
However, Jorge falls in loves with Lina .Marie , a cashier in the tunnel of love Zum Walfisch{{lang-de}}; the Zum Walfisch was a real feature on the Prater of the time on the Prater in Vienna, and Baron Christian von B. fall in love, but their relationship is disrupted by the wilful involvement of the dancer Valette, who always wears a mask.
Christian eventually follows Valette to Paris.
When he tears the golden mask from her face he is shocked to discover that she is disfigured by a disease.
He returns to Vienna with the intention of putting an end to his life, but at the last minute Marie is able to save him.
The ride through the tunnel of love is associated in this film with the journey into one's own self.Two families embark on a pleasant Sunday picnic in their Ford Model T, but manage to run into a variety of issues with the temperamental automobile.
Each incident requires repeated exits and reboardings by Laurel, Hardy, their wives and grouchy, gout-ridden Uncle Edgar.
A brick-throwing argument with a neighbor threatens to escalate into an all-out turf war until the local parson gets involved.
The families manage to finally get their day underway, only to plunge neck-deep into a seemingly shallow, water-filled pothole.Set in May 1929, the film focuses on two sisters - Mayme  and Janie  - as they share an apartment in New York City.
In daytime, they work as salesgirls at the Ginsberg's department store, and at night they fee for the attention of their colleague Bill ([[James Hall  and fight over Janie's selfish and reckless behavior, such as stealing Mayme's clothes and hitchhiking to work with strangers.
Bill prefers Mayme over Janie and constantly shows his affection for her.
This upsets Janie, who schemes to break up the couple.
One day at work, Bill is promoted to floorwalker, while Janie is made treasurer of the benefit pageant.
Mayme, however, is not granted a promotion, but gets heavily criticized for constantly being late at work by the head of personnel, Miss Streeter .The plot involves the romances of musical comedy stars, set against the backstage hubbub of a Broadway revue.
Anita Page and Bessie Love play a vaudeville sister act who have come to New York for their big break on Broadway.
Charles King plays the song-and-dance man whose affection for one sister  is supplanted by his growing love for the younger, more beautiful sister .
Queenie tries to protect her sister and derail the love triangle by dating a wealthy but unscrupulous "stage door Johnny."
The movie opens with Eddie Kearns debuting “The Broadway Melody.” He tells some chorus girls he’s brought the Mahoney Sisters to New York to perform it with him in Francis Zanfield’s latest revue.
Hank and Queenie Mahoney are awaiting Eddie’s arrival at their apartment.
Hank, the older sister, prides herself on her business sense and talent while Queenie is lauded for her beauty.
Hank is confident they will make it big while Queenie is less eager to put everything on the line to be stars.
Their Uncle Jed arrives to tell them he’s gotten them a job with a 30-week traveling show.
Hank tells him they’re not interested but he says he’ll give them time to think it over.
Eddie, who is engaged to Hank, arrives and sees Queenie for the first time since she was a girl and is instantly taken with her.
He tells them to come to rehearsal for Zanfield’s revue to present their act.
Zanfield isn’t interested in it but says he might have a use for Queenie, who begs him to give Hank a part as well.
She also convinces him to pretend Hank’s business skills won him over.
Eddie witnesses this exchange and becomes even more enamored of Queenie for her devotion to her sister.
During dress rehearsal for the revue Zanfield says the pacing is too slow for “The Broadway Melody” and cuts Hank and Queenie from the number.
Meanwhile, another girl is injured after falling off a prop and Queenie is selected to replace her.
Nearly everyone is captivated by Queenie, particularly notorious playboy Jacques “Jock” Warriner.
While Jock begins to woo Queenie, Hank is upset that Queenie is building her success on her looks rather than her talent.
Over the next couple weeks Queenie spends a lot of time with Jock, of which Hank and Eddie fervently disapprove.
They forbid her to see him, which results in Queenie pushing them away and deterioration of the relationship between the sisters.
Queenie is only with Jock to fight growing feelings for Eddie, but Hank thinks she’s setting herself up to be hurt.
Eventually, Eddie and Queenie confess their love for each other but Queenie, unwilling to break her sister’s heart, runs off to Jock once again.
Hank, after witnessing Queenie’s fierce outburst toward Eddie and his devastated reaction to it, finally realizes they are in love.
She berates Eddie for letting Queenie run away and tells him to go after her.
She claims to never have loved him and that she’d only been using him to advance her career.
After he leaves she breaks down and alternates between sobs and hysterical laughter.
She composes herself enough to call Uncle Jed to accept the job with the 30-week show.
There’s a raucous party at the apartment Jock had recently purchased for Queenie but he insists they spend time alone.
When she resists his advances he says it’s the least she could do after all he’s done for her.
He begins to get physical but Eddie bursts in and attempts to fight Jock, who knocks him through the door with one punch.
Queenie runs to Eddie and leaves Jock and the party behind.
Sometime later, Hank and Uncle Jed await the arrival of Queenie and Eddie from their honeymoon.
The relationship between the sisters is on the mend but there is obvious discomfort between Hank and Eddie.
Queenie announces she’s through with show business and will settle down in their new house on Long Island.
She insists that Hank lives with them when her job is over.
After Hank leaves with her new partner and Uncle Jed, Queenie laments the fact that her sister hasn’t found the happiness she deserves.
The final scene is of a distraught Hank on her way to the train station.Several struggling bohemians try to survive in the Latin Quarter of Paris in the winter of 1830, hoping to one day become famous.
Playwright Rodolphe  and his painter roommate Marcel  have trouble with Bernard , the landlord, who threatens to throw them out if they do not come up with the monthly rent that night.
Rodolphe reluctantly starts writing an overdue article for a journal editor to earn some money, but the editor rejects his work.
With the help of their friends, musician Schaunard  and bookish Colline , they are able to raise their rent money.
Their next door neighbor, Mimi , an orphaned, friendless embroiderer, has the same problem.
Bernard is attracted to her, but when she does not respond to his overture, he issues the same threat.
She takes her meager belongings to the municipal pawnshop, but does not receive enough money to pay the rent.
On her way back, she is nearly run over  by the carriage of the rich, idle aristocrat Vicomte Paul .
She has to fend off his advances.
When Marcel is invited to dinner by his girlfriend and downstairs neighbor, Musette , he persuades her to allow Schaunard to join them.
Then the musician gets her to include Colline, who asks for Rodolphe.
Rodolphe misses his cue in order to become acquainted with Mimi.
Seeing how cold she is, he invites her to warm herself in his apartment.
Later, after she vacates her room, Rodolphe entices her to share in the food Musette has provided.
Then Vicomte Paul comes over.
She thinks he wants some embroidery done, not realizing he has baser motives.
Rodolphe does and immediately becomes jealous of the aristocrat.
In any case, Mimi is able to pay her rent and stay.
In spring, Mimi joins her friends out in the country for her very first picnic.
She and the love-smitten Rodolphe wander away.
After a while, she admits that she loves him.
This inspires Rodolphe to write a play.
When Mimi takes his latest, long overdue article to his editor, she is requested to tell him that he is discharged.
Wanting Rodolphe to continue working undisturbed on his play, she works secretly at night to keep up the deception that he still has a paying job.
The strain, however, makes her sick.
When Vicomte Paul comes to pick up Mimi's handiwork, she tells him of Rodolphe's new play.
Still hoping to seduce her, he offers to show it to a theatrical manager, if she will come with him to the theatre.
Rodolphe sees them together and, in a rage, accuses Mimi of having an affair.
She tries to explain, but he refuses not listen.
Rodolphe tries to forget Mimi.
When he runs into the editor, he is surprised to hear he has been fired for five weeks.
Meanwhile, Mimi, with Musette's help, dresses up and goes with Vicomte Paul to the theatre, hoping to get Rodolphe's play accepted.
She once again rejects the vicomte's advances.
Returning home, she is confronted by Rodolphe.
She admits having worked in secret for him.
He initially forgives her, until he finds out that she went out with Vicomte Paul and jumps to the conclusion she got the money from him.
He hits her, but soon apologizes when he discovers she is very sick.
Rodolphe goes to find a doctor, but she leaves before they return, explaining in a letter that she will come back when his play is a success.
He searches for her for months.
Out of his anguish, a new and greater play is born.
This turns out to be a hit, but he is miserable without Mimi.
Meanwhile, Mimi is toiling in the slums of Paris, but the hard work is too much for the frail woman.
She collapses.
The doctor tells her coworkers she will not live out the night.
She stumbles out into the street and eventually reaches her old apartment.
Rodolphe is ecstatic to see her.
Their friends, however, realize her condition.
While he goes to fetch her pet bird, she tells Musette she is happy, before dying.Tiger Haynes traps wild animals for a living, and bears the scars of his dangerous occupation on his face.
He cares for only one thing in life: his beloved daughter, Toyo.
When he returns to the city of Vien-Tien from his latest foray in the jungle, Toyo tells him that she and Bobby Bailey, the son of an American circus owner , have fallen in love and are engaged.
Initially opposed to the union, Tiger gives them his blessing after Bobby protects the girl from a tiger that has gotten loose.
Tiger and Bobby take the captured animals down the river for shipment to Bobby's father.
On the trip, Bobby becomes infatuated with the alluring Madame de Sylva.
When Bobby introduces Tiger to her, they regard each other with intense hatred.
Tiger takes Bobby off the ship to get him away from the woman.
While waiting for the barge carrying the animals, he explains that Madame de Sylva is Toyo's mother.
She ran away when Toyo was only a baby.
Aghast, Bobby makes Tiger promise to keep the whole incident secret.
When they reach the port, Tiger is worried because Bobby and de Sylva will be sailing across the Pacific on the same ship.
Bobby reassures him by instead returning with him to Toyo.
However, Madame de Sylva arrives unexpectedly and is welcomed by an unsuspecting Toyo.
De Sylva uses all her feminine wiles to try to lure Bobby away from her daughter.
After Toyo overhears the truth in a heated argument between her parents, she tells Bobby she only wants him to be happy.
That frees Bobby from the older woman's spell.
Tiger secretly opens the cage of an old gorilla who still remembers being mistreated by de Sylva long ago.
It is implied that the femme fatale is killed.
When Toyo and Bobby come out to see what is going on, Tiger rushes into de Sylva's room and is gravely injured.
Afterward, hiding the seriousness of his wounds, Tiger watches the young couple get married by the Padre.A woman is thrown out of her home by her jealous husband and sinks into depravity.
Twenty years later, she finds herself accused of murder for saving her son, who does not know who she is.
He finds himself defending her without knowing her background.Katyusha, a country girl, is seduced and abandoned by Prince Dimitry.
Dimitry finds himself, years later, on a jury trying the same Katyusha for a crime he now realizes his actions drove her to.
He follows her to imprisonment in Siberia, intent on redeeming her and himself as well.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0018318/ ResurrectionThe film questions the theme of land and Agrarian Reform in Brazil, and depicts the landowners known as "coronéis" in Portuguese as brutal and vindictive men.
A lot of money, equipment and resources were employed for the film as it was considered an important topic at the time.
Much of the film however has been destroyed and only fragments remain.Paul Beaumont is a scientist who labored for years alone to prove his radical theories on the origin of mankind.
Baron Regnard becomes his patron, enabling him to do research while living in his mansion.
One day, Beaumont announces to his beloved wife Marie and the baron that he has proved all his theories and is ready to present them before the Academy of the Sciences.
He leaves the arrangements to the baron.
However, after Beaumont goes to sleep, Marie steals his key, opens the safe containing his papers, and gives them to the baron.
It is clear that Marie and the baron are lovers.
On the appointed day, Paul travels to the Academy with the baron.
He is aghast when the baron, instead of introducing him, takes credit for Paul's work himself.
After he recovers from the shock, Paul confronts him in front of everyone, but the baron tells them that Paul is merely his assistant and slaps him.
All of the academicians laugh at his humiliation.
Paul later seeks comfort from his wife, but she brazenly admits she and the baron are having an affair and calls him a clown.
Paul leaves them.
Five years pass by.
Paul is now a clown calling himself "HE who gets slapped", the star attraction of a small circus near Paris.
His act consists of him getting slapped every evening by other clowns, and includes a parody of the event in the preceding paragraph.
Another of the performers is Bezano, a daredevil horseback rider.
Consuelo, the daughter of the impoverished Count Mancini, applies to join his act.
Bezano falls in love with Consuelo, as does Paul.
Consuelo and her father, however, are planning to restore the family's fortunes with a marriage to her father's wealthy friend.
One night, during HE's performance, he spots the baron in the audience.
The baron goes backstage and begins flirting with Consuelo, which she does not like.
The next day, Consuelo receives jewelry from the baron, but she rejects it.
When her father leaves for a meeting with the baron, Bezano takes Consuelo out to the countryside for a romantic meeting, where they declare their love for each other.
Meanwhile, Count Mancini convinces the reluctant baron that the only way he can have Consuelo is by marrying her.
The baron discards the heartbroken Marie, leaving her with a check.
Later, HE admits to Consuelo he too is in love with her.
She thinks he is kidding and laughingly slaps him.
They are interrupted by the baron and the count, who inform Consuelo she will marry the baron after the night's performance.
When HE tries to interfere, he is locked in an adjoining room, where an angry lion is kept in a cage.
He moves the cage so that, when he carefully opens it, only the door to the next room prevents the lion from escaping.
HE then reenters the other room through the only other entrance  and reveals his identity to the baron.
HE threatens the baron, but the count stabs him with a sword.
The baron and count try to leave, but finding the main entrance locked, open the side door, releasing the lion.
The animal kills first the count, then the baron.
However, the lion tamer shows up and saves HE from the same fate.
HE goes on stage and collapses.
He assures Consuelo he is happy and that she will be happy, before dying in her arms.
The Andreyev play on which the film is based ends with Consuelo unknowingly taking poison from a wine glass, which Paul Beaumont finishes off.
Yet in the film only Paul dies.
MGM was always averse to unhappy endings in their films, even at this early date.
Prior to the filming of the movie, the play had been performed on Broadway with actor Richard Bennett in the Chaney role.The Divine Woman is adapted from the 1925 Broadway play Starlight by Gladys Unger, which starred Doris Keane.
The plot is loosely based on stories of the early life of the French actress Sarah Bernhardt.
Marianne  is a poor French country girl who goes to Paris in the 1860s to seek her fortune as an actress.
As she rises to success in the theatre, she must choose between the romantic attentions of two men.
The first is Lucien , a poor but passionate young soldier who deserts the army to be with Marianne and goes to jail after stealing a dress to give her.
Her other suitor is Henry Legrand , a wealthy middle-aged Paris producer who offers her fame and fortune.Leon de Severac is fed up with his daughter Jacqueline, who is constantly seducing men.
Hoping to discourage her from her flirtatious behavior, he tells her the story of Zareda, an attractive fortune teller who is having an affair with Ivan de Maupin.
Ivan's father, the Baron, lusts after her as well and Ivan eventually grows convinced that Zareda is cheating on him.
Giving her up, he leaves for War shortly after.
A short period later, Zareda finds out the Baron is about to poison Marquis Ferroni.
Trying to save the marquis, she switches the wine glasses and the Baron dies instead.
The marquis, a powerful millionaire, is very grateful to Zareda and they soon marry.
For a short period of time, Zareda is a happy woman, until the return of Ivan.
Jealous, Ivan makes sure he is not giving the marquis any rest.
It eventually leads to a duel, where the marquis is mortally wounded.
As he is about to die, he notices his wife embracing Ivan.
Realizing she is using her body to get what she wants, he uses his last seconds alive to kill them both.
Thereafter, he dies.
{{cite web}} Michael Powell remembered the movie thus: "Moonlight on tiger skins and blood dripping onto white faces, while sinister apes, poison and lust kept the plot rolling.
"John Casey ([[George O'Hara  is a Coast Guard Officer stationed on Long Island Sound.
He is both hated and feared by a band of smugglers headed by Diamond Kate.
The serial unfolds with the smuggler gang choosing their strike against Casey, the night of the Cadet Coast Guard Ball.
Casey’s brother Frank answers the call that night and is killed in action against the smugglers.
John Casey vows revenge for the death of his brother.Taking place in England in the year 1690, The Man Who Laughs features Gwynplaine, the son of an English nobleman who has offended King James II.
The monarch sentences Gwynplaine's father to death in an iron maiden, after calling upon a surgeon, Dr. Hardquannone, to disfigure the boy's face into a permanent grin.
As a title card states, the King condemned him "to laugh forever at his fool of a father."
Gwynplaine's deceased father's estate is currently owned by the Duchess Josiana and Queen Anne decrees that the royal duchess must marry Gwynplaine, as its rightful heir, to make things right.
Josiana, who knows who Gwynplaine is, arranges a rendezvous and is sexually attracted to, but also repelled by the "Laughing Man" image.
Gwynplaine, who has been made a Peer in the House of Lords, refuses the Queen's order of marriage and escapes, chased by guards.
He finds Ursus and Dea at the docks, sailing from England under banishment, and joins them on the boat.
The film leaves off the tragic ending of Hugo's original novel, in which Dea dies while at sea and Gwynplaine drowns himself.Joline Hofer  is a profligate Montmartre dancer who left her illegitimate child in a convent.
Paul Granville  is an American artist who becomes smitten by the dancer, and uses her for his portraits of great women.
When one of Paul's paintings, of the Madonna, appears to result in a miracle, Joline's life is changed forever, as she reforms, reclaims her child and marry the artist.The film is a wide-ranging ensemble piece, with Farrell and Beery playing equally large roles, and detailed subplots about the country's atmosphere before the conflict{{clarify}} as well as Stephen Decatur's early naval exploits.
{{No plot}}Mary and Carlstop are a trapeze artist and a pickpocket who get themselves almost fatally involved with Lieberkind, a lion-tamer, and his jealous wife Yonna.After the death of his wife, Pierre Amsler, the mayor  of the village of Saint-Luc in the mountainous Haut-Valais region of Switzerland, is left to bring up his two children, Jean  and Pierrette .
He sends his son away with his godfather, Canon Taillier, while he remarries with Jeanne Dutois, a widow with a daughter of her own .
When Canon Taillier breaks the news to Jean of his father's marriage, Jean is upset but promises to try to respect the decision.
When Jean returns home, he becomes resentful of his stepmother Jeanne whom he sees usurping his mother's place, and his feelings find their outlet in his growing hostility towards Arlette.
Finding that his spacious bedroom is now occupied by Arlette and Pierrette and that he now has a smaller room, Jean takes the only portrait of his mother to his new room for comfort.
While playing with Pierrette, he refuses to let Arlette join them.
When he sees Jeanne take a dress that that his mother wore to make dresses for the two girls, he ruins it intentionally.
Jean and Arlette now despise each other.
One day in winter while travelling in a sled, Jean surreptitiously throws Arlette's beloved childhood doll onto the track.
That night, he tricks Arlette into venturing out onto the snow-covered mountain by telling her where her doll fell.
Arlette gets lost and takes refuge in a chapel which becomes covered by an avalanche.
Stricken with guilt, Jean tells Pierre what he has done, and a search party rescues Arlette from the chapel.
Jean is silently reproached by his family, and when he turns to his mother's portrait for consolation it appears faded and distant.
Next day Jean writes a letter of apology to his father, saying that he is going away, and he asks Arlette and Pierrette to deliver it.
He goes to a nearby stream, where he has seen an image of his mother smiling at him, and prepares to drown himself.
The girls tell Jeanne of his departure and she goes in search of him.
She finds him just as he falls into the stream, and she wades into the fast-running water to rescue him.
As Jeanne comforts him back in his room, Jean finally accepts her as his new mother.During a blizzard, Russian count Alexis Vronsky, aide-de-camp of the Grand Duke, meets a mysterious woman on the way to St. Petersburg, Russia.
When they are forced to stop at an inn for the night, Vronsky attempts a seduction after she lifts her veil, revealing a beautiful face.
She rejects him coldly.
Some time later, at a reception at his place for Senator Karenin, Vronsky is presented to the Senator's wife, Anna, the woman at the inn that cold night and he tries to ask forgiveness for his transgressions.
This she finally grants but then he visits her in her home and kisses her passionately and she scolds him again ordering him to leave.
Anna has a young son, Sergei, with whom she has an almost incestious relationship which is thawed as a fiery passion develops between Anna and Vronsky.
This is noted by the aristocracy of St. Petersburg, to the displeasure of her husband.
After a horse race, in which Anna makes a spectacle of herself and all but announces her love for Vronsky, she deserts her husband when he finds the two lovers in an hotel room.
They go off to Italy together.
Anna cannot forget her son and suffers because she left him, Vronsky realizes this and even though he is jealous of her, returns to Russia with her.
She plans to visit Sergei on his birthday, but Karenin prevents it, having told their son that his mother is dead.
She overcomes her fear and goes to the house in any case but is found out by Karenin and ordered out of the house.
To make matters worse, the Grand Duke plans to have Vronsky removed from the army because he is cohabitating with Anna, who seeks to prevent him from losing his social position as she has lost hers.
She goes to the Grand Duke and is able to reinstate Alexis, on the condition that she leave him, and St. Petersburg, forever.
As a result of losing the right to visit her son and now having to leave Vronsky forever in order to save his reputation, she commits suicide and leaps in front of a train.
This variant complies with original work of Leo Tolstoy.
For three years the lovers do not see each other but Vronsky searches frantically for Anna.
By chance, he reads in a newspaper an item on Anna's son, who is finishing at the Military Academy in St. Petersburg and will return for his visits.
On this occasion, he learns that Karenin has died and that Anna visits her son daily.
They met again when Sergei invites Vronsky to his home, and are reunited.Ollie brings Stan home for dinner, a very unwelcome surprise for Mrs. Hardy who storms out in a huff.
Mrs. Kennedy, a neighbor from across the hall, offers to help the boys cook dinner; they, in turn, help to set her dress on fire.
Mr. Kennedy, a cop, returns home and the boys hide the slip-clad Mrs. K. in a trunk.
Unaware that his wife is within earshot, Mr. Kennedy starts bragging to the boys about his extramarital liaisons.
The plot involves a young woman  who wants to be in the Follies, but in the meantime is making ends meet by working at a department store's sheet music department, where she sings the latest hits.
She is accompanied on piano by her childhood boyfriend , who is in love with her, despite her single-minded interest in her career.
When a vaudeville performer  asks her to join him as his new partner, she sees it as an opportunity to make her dream come true.
Upon arriving in New York City, our heroine finds out that her new partner is only interested in sleeping with her and makes this a condition of making her a star.
Soon, however, she is discovered by a representative of Ziegfeld.Leslie Hatton, a poor farmer, becomes a captain and a war hero in World War I.
While on a leave, he secretly marries Rose, the "village belle", but he only has time for a few kisses and a hug before he has to return to the fighting.
After the Armistice, Major Hatton comes home, only to be told by Marvin Swallow that his wife's parents have had their marriage annulled, as she was not of age.
Rose married wealthy Lon Henderson and the couple went abroad.
Les returns to farming.
One day, the Hendersons return.
Rose, disillusioned by Lon's repeated infidelity, throws herself at Les.
He weakens and embraces her, but then Lon shows up.
The two men struggle when Lon pulls out a gun.
Fortunately no one is hurt, and Les invents a French wife on her way to the farm so he will be left alone.
He goes to Ellis Island in search of a real wife.
An official directs him to Catherine and her parents, poor would-be immigrants who are facing deportation.
He offers to marry her in exchange for the family being allowed to settle in America.
Her parents strongly oppose the bargain, but she accepts.
That night, Catherine is prepared to share her bed with her husband, but sensing her resigned attitude, Les decides at the last minute to sleep alone in another room.
They gradually fall in love.
Meanwhile, Lon decides to break off his affair with young Jessie Peebles.
When Marvin asks her to marry him, she asks for a little time to consider.
Les later finds her lifeless body in a pond on his farm.
Lon, a member of the local Ku Klux Klan-like Order, insinuates that Les must have had something to do with Jessie's suicide.
Les is taken at gunpoint to face vigilante justice.
The head of the Order sends for Lon, but decides in his absence that the evidence is overwhelming, and Les is tied up and whipped.
The men sent to fetch Lon find him dead in his office and Marvin hiding with a gun.
They take him back to the Order meeting.
He denies having killed Lon and produces Lon's love letters to Jessie, exonerating Les.
The head of the Order rules that, even if Marvin did not kill Lon, he would have been justified to do so.
One of his men stages it to look like suicide.Duke  a pampered millionaire's son, who longs to be a boxer, takes an interest in Susie , a college coed with whom he takes an interest in after he defends her from being bullied.
Duke's interest in Susie, leads him to enroll in the same school as Susie.
After a misunderstanding between Duke and Susie, they realize they are meant to be together and are reunited.Adolphe Menjou stars as Prince Lucio de Rimanez, who is in fact really Satan assuming a human form.
When struggling writer Geoffrey Tempest  is moved to curse God for his misfortunes, Prince Lucio makes a sudden appearance, informing Tempest that he has inherited a fortune.
The only proviso is that Tempest must place his fate entirely in the Prince's hands.
As he ascends to the uppermost rungs of European society, Tempest is ordered by Lucio to marry Russian Princess Olga, even though the writer still loves his sweetheart Mavis Claire.
Eventually, Prince Lucio reveals his true identity, but not before Olga has committed suicide.
After rejecting the Devil and all his false promises, Tempest lives happily ever after with Mavis.A company of men meets for a hunt lasting several days at Castle Vogelöd, hosted by Lord von Vogelschrey, but a sweeping rain brings the pleasure to nought and they spend their time in the inward parts of the castle.
Even the non-invited Count Johann Oetsch appears.
He gets eschewed by other partakers of the hunt since he is reputed to have shot his own brother, Peter, a few years ago.
This rumour gets nourished by a retired Judge of the District Court.
The widow of the brother, the remarried Baroness Safferstätt, is also expected – which makes the situation unpleasant for the host.
Count Oetsch neclects this matter and remains.
The Baroness is affrighted by their coming and determined to depart again.
The report of the coming of Father Faramund, allied with her former husband, is kept back by her; she will make confession unto him.
In the following days, Oetsch and the Baroness – and the Baron – accuse one another of the murder of the brother of the Count.
At the same time, in flashbacks, follows a confession in stages of the Baroness, that her marriage was anything but harmonious.
Her husband became more and more interested in spiritual things than in her, so that she, in the presence of Baron Safferstätt, a friend of her husband, had wished for something "evil" – which in turn had falsely interpreted it and thereafter shot her husband.
This common trespass had finally let her and the Baron be married, without something else to feel for each other than emptiness.
The Father takes his false beard and his wig off, revealing himself as Count Oetsch who now can justify his innocence.
Baron Safferstätt shoots himself.
The true Father Faramund comes to the castle.A humble woman  marries a wealthy man .
Their marriage is annulled by the man's father , who considers her a fortune-hunter, and she is left alone to raise her child.
She later becomes a "kept woman" for an older, married man.
When the man dies, leaving Swanson a $500,000 inheritance, the press is quick to cast doubts upon the paternity of Swanson's child.
Her ex-husband has since remarried, and now comes back into Swanson's life.
For the sake of her child, she sends the boy to live with her ex and his wife.
The wife dies and the film ends happily  with Swanson reunited with her ex-husband.Jewel  is a young widow whose ambitions are stalled by loyalty to her grizzled, angry father-in-law.
Anger and squabbling amongst the family are brought to heel through love, understanding and the teachings of Christian Science.Beauchamp, Cari;Without lying down: Frances Marion and the powerful women of early Hollywood; University of California Press, Berkeley, 1997; p. 149In the town of Kirkton, James Carson is involved in crime and is investigated by the Attorney-General, Howard Lawton.
Carson's daughter Cherry falls in love with Lawton's son Peter, and Lawton forbids the relationship.
James Carson goes into hiding, taking Cherry with him.
A year later Peter finds Cherry selling flowers in a mountain tourist resort, trying to support her now-alcoholic father.
Carson dies of a heart attack and Cherry can marry Peter.The film is a romantic melodramaabout two childhood friends who grow up to be soldiers in Austria.
One of the friends, Leo,  becomes infatuated with Felicitas , who turns out to be the wife of a powerful count .
The count calls Leo out for a duel of honor, but insists that it be done under the false pretense that the quarrel was due to angry words exchanged between the two at a card game in order to protect the count's reputation.
Leo kills the count in the duel, but then is punished by the military, being sent away to Africa for five years.
Due to Ulrich's intervention, Leo only serves three years before being recalled home.
He return journey focuses on his dream of being reunited with Felicitas.
Before he left for Africa, Leo had ask Ulrich  to take care of Felicitas' needs while he was away, but Ulrich — unaware that his friend is in love with Felicitas — falls in love with her himself and marries her.
Upon his return, Leo finds himself torn between temptation for Felicitas — which the young woman encourages — and his friendship for Ulrich.
Condemned by a local pastor for continuing to associate with Felicitas, Leo eventually loses control of his emotions.
Felicitas plays Leo for a fool.
He tries to kill her by choking her, leading to a climactic duel between the two boyhood friends.
While racing to stop the duel, Felicitas falls through a layer of thin ice and drowns.
Meanwhile, the friends reconcile, realizing that their friendship is more important than Felicitas.An Indian chief of the Arapahoe escapes the reservation where he has been living and takes along some of his warriors.
The cavalry is sent out for them.Jimmy Valentine is the alias of an infamous safe cracker who has just been sentenced to prison for four years for his crimes.
He does not stay locked up for long, though, as he is released after ten months.
When he is released, he packs his state of the art, custom robbery tools and commits several more robberies.
Ben Price, the detective who put him away the first time is called to the case, but although he knows it is Jimmy,  he cannot find him.
Jimmy has actually fled and he is currently in the small town of Elmore, Arkansas, with plans to rob the local bank there.
However, he finds himself love struck by the banker's beautiful daughter, Annabel Thomas, and begins to fall in love with her.
In order to get such a beautiful girl, he decides to turn over a new leaf and give up his criminal career and take another alias, Ralph D. Spencer.
"Ralph" opens a shoe making store and is very successful in doing so.
He even begins to like his new life, and easily wins Annabel's heart, becoming engaged to her.
He writes a letter to an old friend, and tells him to meet him in Little Rock, where he will give him his robbery tools he doesn't need anymore.
On the day of the exchange, however, the banker shows the town his new safe, that cannot be broken into.
Annabel's nieces are amazed at the sheer size of it, and begin to walk in and out of it.
Unfortunately, one accidentally shuts the door, locking the other inside.
Everyone panics, as the banker has not set the combination yet, and Annabelle begs "Ralph" to do something.
This is hard for Valentine, as Ben Price has also tracked him down, and watches to see his decision.
As Jimmy has tried so hard to start over, he finds himself making a very difficult decision.
However, he decides that there is only so much air in the safe, and if he does not take action, the terrified child may suffocate.
Valentine pulls out his bag of tools and breaks the safe open in a matter of seconds, amazing the banker, and saving the child.
Jimmy knows that since he has revealed his identity, he must leave.
As he is leaving, he decides that he may as well go to prison and he surrenders to Ben.
However, Ben, who knows that Valentine has truly changed, tells Jimmy he should go to Little Rock, and leaves, pretending that he never saw him.Three sideshow performers leave the circus after Tweedledee the midget assaults a child at one of their shows and become "The Unholy Three."
Echo the ventriloquist assumes the role of Mrs. O'Grady, a kindly old grandmother, who runs a bird shop.
Tweedledee, "The Twenty Inch Man," becomes her grandchild, and Hercules  is their assistant.
Soon an incredible crime wave is launched from their little store.
Convincingly disguised as a little old lady, Echo and his two carnival cohorts perform a series of Park Avenue robberies.
Echo's sweetheart Rosie  plays along with the Unholy Three but changes her mind when their latest burglary, which ended in murder, threatens to send an innocent man  to the electric chair.When the orchestra leader strides onstage and makes his way to his podium, the audience at the bandshell applauds — and it's the last moment of harmony in the film.
Of course, Laurel and Hardy establish themselves as the epicenter of the difficulties: somehow, they get out of synch with the other musicians, so when the conductor taps his baton for the band to stand up, The Boys sit down; another tap, and the band sits while The Boys stand up.
Up and down, down and up — it takes a look-that-could-kill from the maestro to wilt the two back into their chairs.
He gets the music rolling then, and it seems to proceed well: the group plays a passage, then the soloists stand and contribute — a trumpet first, then a trombone, until the clarinetist is called upon for his solo — and the cutaway shows him still sorting through his music charts with his friend, Mr. Hardy.
Another up-close-and-personal staredown gets a bleat from Stan's woodwind that blows the hat off the maestro and is unmistakably a sour note — even though it's a silent picture.
Touchingly, Ollie stands and provides the needed solo line from his French horn for his friend.
Stan's performance is dealt another blow when his clarinet comes all apart in his hands, then a particularly robust riff from the trombonist behind him blows his music from its stand over to the conductor's podium and under his feet.
Stan plucks the music — the French horn music — from Ollie's stand, sending him over to retrieve the sheets from under the maestro's stomping foot.
When Ollie returns with the charts, he sees that they are for b-flat clarinet, and there is a musical twist on the wrong-hat swap.
The kerfuffle over the music causes all the music stands  to tumble over like so many dominoes.
Back at their boardinghouse, The Boys settle in for a hearty meal — the pleasure of which is blunted when they find a note from the landlady: "In the excitement of having a job, you have overlooked 14 weeks board bill."
Ollie tucks it away for postprandial attention, but then the top falls off the pepper shaker and befouls his soup; he swaps his bowl with Stan's, and the salt shaker top falls off and ruins this second bowl.
The landlady asks a boy at the table how the concert was, and he says, "It was great — after they was fired," pointing at The Boys.
Wordlessly, they rise slowly from the table and are met at the door by the landlady, who is holding the totality of their worldly goods: one clarinet, one French horn — and two derbies.
A title card announces: "Re-financing — In business for themselves" and we pick them up on a street corner, instruments in hand.
Even without the benefit of a soundtrack, the visuals alone are convincing that they are as sorry a duo as they were cogs in the ensemble: the exaggerated, uncoordinated foot stomping, the attempts to play the first note together, the rapid unraveling of the effort.
You do not have to hear them to know how bad they are.
Sadly, they are unaware that their difficulties here are just an overture to those upcoming.
First, a policeman comes by and asks if they have a license.
"We have no dog," a befuddled Ollie answers — and the resulting bum's rush from the officer finds them seeking out a new corner.
The new locale doesn't ease the musical discord, though, so a friendly drunk offers to serve as conductor, until his zeal with his walking stick raps Stan on the knuckles.
The cop's return sends them off yet again, and first Stan, then Ollie, fall into manholes.
To add incendiary to insult, Ollie gets a blowtorch to the backside by an irate subterranean worker.
One last try to earn a living through music: The Boys play a selection directly to a cross-eyed passerby who pauses, listens, digs in his vest pocket as if for a coin — then strides away without contributing when they pass the hats, both of them.
It is too much for Ollie: he takes Stan's clarinet and breaks it over his knee, which in turn is too much for Stan, who kicks the French horn under a passing steam roller.
Ollie picks up his squashed instrument, blows into it, and pronounces it "Flat."
The Boys then enter into an atypical extended tit-for-tat routine against one another, escalating from shin-kicking through hanky-tearing, then jacket-ripping, button-popping and hat-stomping.
A man emerging from the ABC Restaurant finds himself involved, and the melee quickly widens to some two dozen well-dressed adult male participants.
It takes a surreal turn with the de-pantsing first of Hardy by Laurel, then of everyone by his adjacent combatant, until all are displaying their  BVDs — including the policeman.
From the swirling maelstrom of boxer shorts, we cut to a solitary king-size gentleman, alone in the frame, with his arms up, his pants gone and his chubby pale legs peeking out from gleaming white shorts: "I've been robbed!"
he cries.
It's instantly clear what happened when we see Stan and Ollie — walking together, finally in synch, in the enormous trousers — tipping their derbies at the audience as they exit the shot.The Boy meets and marries The Girl.
A year later, the two walk down the street with a baby carriage carrying a bottle instead of a baby when they run into The Girl's brother who asks the couple to do him a favor and babysit his children.
They accept and the remainder of the short consists of gags showcasing the difficulties of babysitting children.
At the very end, The Boy discovers some knitted baby clothes in a drawer .A Judge  sentences a murderer  to death.
The murderer vows revenge on the judge so the judge hires Laurel and Hardy, two private detectives to protect him.
The sleuths, after many mishaps, manage to capture the murderer.
{{cite web}}Stan and Ollie are salesmen attempting to sell a washing machine; they fail constantly after several near misses.
One would-be sale has them carrying the machine up a large flight of steps, merely to find out that a young lady wants them to post a letter for her.
The boys later get into an argument knocking off each others' hats, which eventually involves scores of others.
A police van eventually carts all those involved away except Stan and Ollie, who afterwards try and find their own headgear amongst the hundreds of others lying on the street.Mike Jill is a restless and adventurous young woman.
She is in love with Jim, her foster brother and childhood sweetheart.
But now, she also finds herself attracted to art student Oswald Grismer.
Jim leaves for Paris to become an author.
In this period, Mike and Oswald decide to marry each other.
When Jim finds out, he returns home to win Mike over.Joan is brought to trial.
Her judges try to make her say something that will discredit her claim or shake her belief that she has been given a mission by God to drive the English from France, but she remains steadfast.
One or two of them, believing that she is indeed a saint, support her.
The authorities then resort to deception.
A priest reads to the illiterate prisoner a false letter supposedly from her king, telling her to trust in the bearer.
When that too fails, Joan is taken to view the torture chamber, but the sight, though it causes her to faint, does not intimidate her.
When she is threatened with burning at the stake, she finally breaks and allows a priest to guide her hand in signing a confession.
However, she soon recants and is publicly executed.Dreyer, Carl Theodor.
Four Screenplays.
Bloomington & London: Indiana University Press.
1970.
ISBN 253-12740-8. pp.
27-76.Shortly after marrying a man, Nadine Fortier travels through the desert to a distant city to visit her dying mother.
On her way, she is kidnapped by a group of bandits, who use her when gambling.
Nadine eventually becomes the property of Norman Stone, an American criminal who is on the run from the police.
Norman helps her to safety and they plan on crossing ways.
Nadine, however, contacts him to find her husband's murderer.
Themar, the daughter of a sheik, is jealous of Norman's interest in Nadine and she tells Nadine that Norman is responsible for her father's death.
Upon confronting him, Norman admits that her husband had several clandestine meetings with his sister and that he was accidentally shot to death in his presence.
Although she is initially mad, their love for each other proves to be more powerful.
They eventually become a couple and leave the country for America.
{{cite web}}The silent tells the story of a sheltered woman named Letty  who lives in the East in Virginia and moves to West Texas to live at her cousin Beverly's ranch at Sweet Water.
On her way, she is constantly bothered by the never stopping blowing wind.
Wirt Roddy  notices and seduces her in the train.
He scares her by saying the wind usually drives women crazy.
After her arrival, she is picked up by Beverly's closest neighbour Lige Hightower , who lives 15 miles from her cousin.
Letty is afraid of him, but Roddy assures her he will visit her sometimes to look how she is doing.
After endless miles in sand and wind, they arrive at the ranch.
Beverly  is delighted with her arrival, but his wife Cora  is only jealous, despite Letty saying she and Beverly are like brother and sister.
Her grudge against Letty becomes even worse when her children have an immediate connection with her, while they all seem to dislike their mother.
At a party, Mr Sourdough  reveals he intends proposing to Letty.
Lige stops him and explains he wants to propose to her himself.
Letty is accompanied by Roddy when a cyclone interrupts the party.
The guests all hide in a shelter and Roddy declares his love to Letty and begs her to run off with him.
After the cyclone is over, both Lige and Mr. Sourdough propose to her, but Letty thinks it's a joke.
Cora comes in and demands that she leave Beverly alone.
Letty is shocked but Cora tells her that she has to leave the ranch.
Because she has neither money nor a place to go, she decides to go away with Roddy, but Roddy tells her quite openly that he is already married.
Cora agrees that Letty can stay for just one more night at the ranch but tells her that she has to accept one of the two marriage proposals she has received.
She eventually marries Lige after he and Mr.Sourdough toss a coin to win her hand.
He is delighted to marry her, but Letty is not interested in him.
When she admits she doesn't want to be around him, Lige is hurt and promises her he will never touch her.
He also agrees that he will try to make enough money to send her back to Virginia.
Letty remains living with him and keeps household, but is constantly annoyed by the wind.
One day, Lige tells her he is going to a meeting of a few cattlemen.
Letty, bored with the household and driven insane by the wind, begs to go with him but despite initially refusing, he takes Letty with him.
Letty is hurt in a severe sand storm.
Lige rescues her and orders Mr Sourdough to bring her back home.
After the cattlemen return with a severely injured Roddy, she is forced to nurse him.
He forces himself upon her, but she rejects him.
Lige, returns and interrupts them.
A fearful Letty is now happy to see him and they kiss.
Lige soon leaves again for the meeting.
That night, a bad storm makes the house shake.
Letty is driven insane and loses her mind, before fainting.
Roddy saves her, but she demands that he go away.
He becomes aggressive, which results in Letty shooting him to death.
Afraid, Letty decides to bury him.
However, while digging, the wind makes her lose her mind yet again.
She is driven mad, believing that the dead body of Roddy has returned to haunt her.
But Lige returns.
She admits she has killed and buried Roddy.
Lige realizes the wind has made her like this and promises her she will be out of the wind soon as he has now made enough money to send her away.
However, Letty declares her love to him and tells Lige that she no longer wants to leave, is no longer afraid and they kiss.Henry Jekyll  is a doctor of medicine, but he is also an "idealist, philanthropist."
When he is not treating the poor in his free clinic, he is in his laboratory experimenting.
Sir George Carew , the father of his fiancée, Millicent , is "piqued" by Dr. Jekyll.
"No man could be as good as he looks," Carew says.
Following dinner one night, Carew taunts Dr. Jekyll in front of their friends, Edward Enfield , Dr. Lanyon  and Utterson  proclaiming "In devoting yourself to others, Jekyll, aren't you neglecting the development of your own life?"
"Isn't it by serving others that one develops oneself," Jekyll replies.
"Which self?
Man has two - as he has two hands.
Because I use my right hand, should I never use my left?
Your really strong man fears nothing.
It is the weak one who is afraid of experience.
A man cannot destroy the savage in him by denying its impulses.
The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it.
With your youth, you should live - as I have lived.
I have memories.
What will you have at my age?"
And thus the seed is sown, and Jekyll begins his experiments.
As he observes, "Wouldn't it be marvellous if the two natures in man could be separated - housed in different bodies?
Think what it would mean to yield to every evil impulse, yet leave the soul untouched!"
Finally, Jekyll develops a potion that turns him into a hideously evil creature that he calls Edward Hyde.
As this creature, he is not recognizable as Dr. Jekyll, and, so, to facilitate the comings and goings of Hyde, he tells his servant, Poole , that Hyde is to have "full authority and liberty about the house."
Jekyll thus begins to live his double life.
Hyde sets up a room in one of the seediest parts of London.
He brings in a girl from the dance hall, Gina , to live with him there and frequents opium dens, dance halls, and bars - any place that satisfies his evil desires.
Although Jekyll has developed a potion that will also return him to his original appearance and character as Dr. Jekyll, each time he takes the potion to become Edward Hyde, he worsens.
He not only looks more evil, he becomes more evil, as well.
Millicent Carew is worried about the absence of her fiancé, so Sir George goes to call on Jekyll to see what is the matter.
Although Jekyll is not home when he calls, Sir George encounters Hyde in the street just as he knocks a small boy to the ground injuring him.
To make recompense for his actions, he goes and gets a check which he returns to the boy's father.
Carew notices that the check has been signed by Dr. Jekyll.
He confronts Poole who tells him the story of Edward Hyde.
In the meantime, Hyde/Jekyll has returned to the lab and, after drinking the potion, returns to his original self.
Sir George finds him in the lab and demands to know his relationship with "a vile thing like Hyde?"
"What right have you to question me - you who first tempted me?"
says Jekyll.
Sir George angrily retorts that unless Jekyll is forthcoming with an explanation, he must object to his marriage to Millicent.
This angers Jekyll to the point that he suddenly becomes Hyde, right in front of Sir George's eyes, without benefit of the potion.
Sir George runs into the courtyard where Hyde catches him and clubs him to death with his walking stick.
Hyde runs to his apartment and destroys any evidence that may link him to Jekyll.
He eludes the police by only minutes and returns to his lab where he is able to drink the potion that restores him as Jekyll.
In the ensuing days, as Millicent grieves, Jekyll is tortured by his misdeeds.
Soon, the drug needed to make the potion that will return him as Dr. Jekyll is depleted and cannot be found in all of London.
Jekyll stays locked up in his lab fearing he may become Hyde at any moment.
Millicent finally goes to see him, but just as she is about to enter the lab, he begins to transform into Hyde.
Jekyll consumes the poison in the ring he took from the Italian dancer before he opens the door, fully transformed into Hyde.
He lets her in, locks the door and grabs her in his arms.
Suddenly, he starts convulsing.
Millicent runs from the lab and when Lanyon comes in, he finds Hyde sitting in a chair, having just died, and his appearance returned to that of Dr. Jekyll.
He discerns that Jekyll committed suicide, and calls the others  in, but declares to them that Hyde has killed Dr. Jekyll.
In the final shot, Millicent is grieving next to the body of Dr. Jekyll.Max and Mary are in love, but Mary's Aunt Agatha dislikes Max, and instead prefers the unappealing Simon.
So Max has to resort to a series of ruses to try to get Simon out of the way, and to be able to spend time with Mary.
Finally, Max comes up with a scheme that might allow him to prove to Aunt Agatha that he is more worthy than Simon.Bert Wheeler plays a New York bootlegger who comes to the Mexican town of San Lucas to get a divorce so he can marry Dolly .
After the wedding, Wheeler's lawyer, Robert Woolsey, informs Wheeler the divorce was invalid, and advises Wheeler to stay away from his bride.
The Wheeler-Woolsey plot is actually a subplot of the film, which stars Bebe Daniels  as Rita Ferguson, a south-of-the-border beauty pursued by both Texas Ranger Jim Stewart ([[John Boles  and local warlord General Ravenoff .
Ranger Jim is pursuing the notorious bandit Kinkajou along the Rio Grande, but is reluctant to openly accuse Rita's brother, Roberto , as the Kinkajou because he is in love with Rita.
Ravenoff successfully convinces Rita to spurn Ranger Jim on the pretext that Jim will arrest Roberto.
Rita unhappily agrees to marry Ravenoff to prevent him from exposing Roberto as the Kinkajou.
Meanwhile, Wheeler's first wife, Katie , shows up to accuse him of bigamy, but conveniently falls in love with Woolsey.
At this point, the film switches into Technicolor.
During the wedding ceremony aboard Ravenoff's private barge, Ranger Jim cuts the craft's ropes so that it drifts north of the Rio Grande.
The Texas Rangers storm the barge, arrest Ravenoff as the real Kinkajou just in time to prevent the wedding, and Roberto is revealed to be a member of the Mexican Secret Service.
Jim takes Rita's hand in marriage and Roberto escorts Ravenoff back to Mexico for trial.Plot of the film is based on a Soviet engineer who developed a fantastically powerful aircraft engine for airplanes.
Too many parties, however, want to own this invention and so passions run high.Ruth Jordan is a gentlewoman rescued from a fate worse than death by Stephen Ghent—facing Dutch, the nastiest man in the West.Billy Kershaw, the son of a manufacturer in a small western town, comes to New York on business.
He becomes engaged to wealthy Peggy Rice, a member of the modern jazz set, who prefers to "play the field" with other men.
Sometime before, Billy had sent Jim Gorman to jail for theft, causing Gormans girl, Minette Christie, to leave town.
At a fashion show, Peggy persuades Billy to buy her an ermine wrap, trimmed with rhinestones, which is modeled by a girl who turns out to be Minette.
Billy realizes that Peggy is no more than a gold digger and breaks the engagement.
Gorman shows up and attempts to kill Minette, for he believes she turned him in.
Billy, however, defeats Gorman in a fight, and at the very last minute saves Minette from being gassed to death in her apartment.
Billy comes to realize that Minette is the girl for him.
A tale from India about the origin of the Buddha, Prem Sanyas depicts the story of Prince Siddhartha Gautama , the man who became the Buddha, as he journeys from privilege and seclusion to awareness of the inevitability of life's suffering, finally renouncing his kingdom to seek enlightenment.Excitement arrives in the town of Toonerville, when a movie is being shot on location in front of the Scorpion's clubhouse.
After kicking the film crew off of the property, Mickey and his Gang make their own movie with the aid of a 'scenario' that Mickey recently wrote.The film is an anthology of four stories: "The Bad Samaritan", "The Man Who Heard Everything", "Chinese Story" or "Hop",<ref namehttp://www.allmovie.com/cg/avg.dll?p1:85139|title2008-05-25|lastDan|publisherEnglish}}Juan Gallardo , a village boy born into poverty, grows up to become one of the greatest matadors in Spain.
He marries a friend from his childhood, the beautiful and virtuous Carmen , but after he achieves fame and fortune he finds himself drawn to Doña Sol , a wealthy, seductive widow.
They embark on a torrid affair with rather sadomasochistic overtones, but Juan, feeling guilty over his betrayal of Carmen, tries to free himself of Doña Sol.
Furious at being rejected, she exposes their affair to Carmen and Juan's mother, seemingly destroying his marriage.
Growing more and more miserable and dissipated, Juan becomes reckless in the arena.
He is eventually killed in a bullfight but does manage to reconcile with Carmen moments before he dies.
There is also a subplot involving a local outlaw whose career is paralleled to Juan's throughout the film by the village philosopher: Juan's fatal injury in the bullring comes moments after the outlaw is shot by the police.The plot concerns Sam-ryong, a deaf servant who is in love with his landlord's daughter-in-law.
Critics praised the final scene of the film, in which the house burns, as a work of pioneering and experimental film making.Stan and Ollie are prison escapees.
In their haste to change into street clothes, they wind up wearing each other's pants.
A cop chases them to a construction site, where they escape by riding an elevator to the top floor of a unfinished building.
Atop the girders, 20 stories in the air, they finally switch trousers, contend with a crab that has found its way into Ollie's pants, and manage to nearly fall to their death a few dozen times.Adrienne, a Gypsy girl performing in a traveling carnival, is unable to find true love for herself until she makes the acquaintance of Prince Maurice.
They fall in love, but must part when, for diplomatic reasons, the prince is called upon to make love to the rich wife of an influential duke.
Adrienne later becomes a popular stage actress and again meets the prince.
Coincidentally, she's appearing in a play which resembles the sad story of her earlier relationship with the prince.
Maurice is struggling to win his throne from a usurping dictator.
With Adrienne's help, he dodges an assassination attempt and becomes king.The film is divided into eight chapters.
A secret vigilante society's nine members pass judgment on others.
They meet to decide the fate of a wealthy businessman they have been keeping under surveillance known as “The Man Who Has Lived Too Long” and vote to dispatch him with a homemade bomb concealed in a cigar case.
Members Forrest ([[John Bowers  and Farallone  are both in love with the sole woman in the group, Lilith .
Forrest openly declares his love, but is spurned by Lilith, who is completely devoted to the "Cause".
At a meeting later that day, as per their custom, Lilith deals playing cards, one at a time, to each of the society members; whoever receives the ace of hearts is to carry out the assassination.
When Forrest is dealt the ace, Lilith offers to marry him that very day if it will give him courage.
Forrest readily accepts, much to Farallone ’s distress.
After the couple’s marriage, the grief-stricken Farallone spends the night in the rain outside their apartment.
The next morning, Lilith has been transformed by her love.
She begs Forrest not to go through with the assassination.
He replies that he is honor-bound to carry out his mission.
He goes to the café where his target habitually dines and where Forrest works as a waiter.
A distraught Lilith pleads with Farallone to stop Forrest.
Farallone agrees to help the couple escape the society's punishment if Forrest fails his task, but extracts a promise of marriage from Lilith if Forrest is killed.
Meanwhile, Forrest decides to abort his mission after he spies a young eloping couple seated next to the rich man’s table.
When he returns to the secret council, the group's leader, Morgridge , sends the couple away to await Forrest's execution.
Farallone begs the others to reconsider, but they are unmoved.
When the cards are dealt, it is Farallone who gets the ace of hearts.
Laughing, he carries out his part of the bargain with Lilith by setting off the bomb, killing all present.After the death of his father, young dandy Charles Grandet  is taken under the care of his uncle, Monsieur Grandet ([[Ralph Lewis .
The miserly Grandet, despite being the wealthiest man in his province, forces his family to live in poverty and schemes to cheat his nephew out of his inheritance from his father.
Charles falls in love with Grandet's daughter Eugenie  but Grandet condemns their love, and sends Charles away.
While Charles is away, Grandet kills Eugenie's mother, which sends him further into a maddened state.
It is later revealed that Eugenie is not really Monsieur Grandet's daughter; if she knew, then she could reclaim all of the gold that originally belonged to her mother, leaving her father penniless.
Monsieur Grandet has a violent argument with Eugenie, after she finds letters sent by Charles that her father had hidden, and Monsieur Grandet accidentally locks himself in a small room where he keeps his gold.
He starts hallucinating and is eventually killed after becoming frantic.
Eugenie is now left an extremely wealthy young lady, which only intensifies the pressure put on her by two competing families to marry one of the suitors.
She announces her engagement, but shortly after is reunited with Charles.
{{Expand section}} Buster Keaton is a bank teller who becomes involved in a hold-up, counterfeiters, and a theatrical troupe posing as spooks in a haunted house.
The film ends with a famous sequence of Keaton ascending to heaven, and then descending to Hades.During the First World War, two American soldiers become trapped in no man's land.
Expecting to die, W. Daingerfield Phelps III  decides to fulfill his fondest desire: to beat up his sergeant since training camp, Peter O'Gaffney .
While they are brawling, the Germans sneak up and capture them.
In a German prison camp, the two become friends when Phelps takes responsibility for an unflattering caricature he drew of a guard, rather than let O'Gaffney take the blame.
The two escape, stealing the white robes of Arab prisoners to blend in with the snow.
However, they encounter  a group of similarly garbed Arab prisoners being sent by train to Constantinople.
Near the end of their journey, Phelps creates a distraction, and the two men jump off, landing in a hay wagon.
When the hay is loaded onto a ship bound for Arabia, so are they.
The stowaways are discovered, but the skipper  is satisfied when Phelps pays him their fare.
When a small boat founders nearby, Phelps jumps in to try to rescue an Arabian woman, Mirza .
Both he and the woman have to be saved by O'Gaffney.
The two soldiers and the skipper vie for the veiled woman's affections.
Phelps eventually coaxes her into removing her veil, and is entranced by her beauty.
Meanwhile, the woman's escort observes this development with disapproval.
The skipper insists on being paid for Mirza's fare, but none of the three have any money left.
They hold him off as best they can.
When they reach their destination, the skipper refuses to let Mirza debark without paying, so O'Gaffney robs the purser to get the money.
Mirza is met by Shevket Ben Ali ; Mirza informs Phelps that her father has arranged for her to marry Shevket.
They depart.
The Americans jump overboard when the skipper discovers what happened to his purser.
The two men head for the American consul, but leave hastily without speaking to him when they find the skipper already there lodging a complaint.
They decide to seek the assistance of Mirza's father the Emir, who turns out to be the governor of the region.
However, Mirza's escort has told him and Shevket that Phelps has seen her without her veil.
Outraged, the Emir sends his men to bring the Americans back to be executed.
Unaware of this, the two soldiers saunter into the Emir's palace.
Fortunately, Phelps reads Mirza's warning note in time, and the two escape.
When Phelps sets out to rescue Mirza, O'Gaffney shows true friendship and accompanies him.
They are trapped by Shevket and his men, but when Mirza threatens to kill herself, Shevket proposes they settle this with a duel in which only one of the pistols is loaded.
Phelps agrees and fires first; his gun is the unloaded one.
Mirza is made to leave the room.
Then Shevket reveals that both guns are empty; he did not wish to wager his life with a "dog".
He exits, leaving his men to dispose of Phelps.
The two men overcome their captors, relieve Shevket of Mirza, and ride away.Joe's and Chubby's friendship is tested when their affections for Jean cause the two best friends to fight.
At the same time, Farina and Harry have been unsuccessfully trying to go into business as fight promoters, and find in Joe's and Chubby's rivalry the ingredients for a perfect boxing match.The film is a romance about a young woman named Suwanna who is the object of affection for many men.
In her search for true love, she has many adventures and mishaps, including overcoming her father's disapproval, before finally finding her soulmate.Rosamond  goes down the highway and city streets in a mile-a-minute auto.
She survives arrests and smash-ups only to be captured by escaped convicts.Sakichi, who has just been released after five years in prison, is telling his younger brother Ishimatsu that he intends to turn his back on crime when an acquaintance of theirs, Genshichi, bursts in.
Genshichi is in flight from officers of the law, having been disturbed in the course of a burglary.
Sakichi and Ishimatsu allow him to hide with them, but Sakichi urges him to give up his life of crime.
Genshichi laughs derisively and disappears.
Sakichi apprentices himself to a rice-merchant and by his diligence and honesty earns his employer's trust.
Ishimatsu steals a valuable hair ornament from Oyae, the daughter of a wealthy merchant.
As he flees, pursued by the constable Manabe, he happens to meet Sakichi on the road.
Without warning, he presses the ornament into Sakichi's hand and runs off.
Manabe sees the ornament in Sakichi's possession and is about to take him into custody when Oyae and her attendant arrive and tell him that Sakichi is not the thief.
Manabe lets Sakichi go, but questions him about Ishimatsu.
Sakichi denies knowing Ishimatsu's whereabouts.
Manabe then reveals Sakichi's criminal past, causing him to be dismissed from his apprenticeship.
Despairing, he turns to drink.
Ishimatsu finally decides to mend his ways and suggests to Sakichi that they should return together to their native village, but the disillusioned Sakichi says that society will not allow anyone with a criminal record to turn over a new leaf because it will not believe that the conversion is genuine.
Some time later, Ishimatsu and Sakichi are pursued by the constables.
They separate and Sakichi is aided by Oyae, who conceals him at her father's business premises.
The next morning Sakichi hears the sound of money being counted in the next room.
In a sleepwalking trance he raids the cash-box.
Oyae's father refrains from condemning him as a thief and even gives him more money to enable him to make a new start in life.
Sakichi goes home and is packing his belongings with the intention of returning to his native village when Genshichi arrives and demands a share of the money.
After a fight, Genshichi runs away.
By chance, he meets Ishimatsu and attacks him.
The badly injured Ishimatsu makes his way to Sakichi's house, which is then surrounded by a party of constables led by Manabe.
Sakichi fights his way out, goes to the house where Genshichi is hiding, kills Genshichi, frees Oyae, whom Genshichi has kidnapped, and returns her safely to her father, his benefactor.
Ishimatsu dies, and Sakichi is left pondering in despair the choice between dying himself and turning to outlawry.
The film's plot was summarised in the Japanese movie magazine Kinema Junpo .
The same magazine's review of the film  points out that it owes much of its plot to American movies, including Kick In  and Les Misérables .
The two Kinema Junpo articles are reprinted in the collected works of Yasujiro Ozu.<ref nameVolume 1, pages 15-16}}Bob Wharton  marries beauty queen Lorelei Knight , only to fall into the arms of Bernice Lane  during their honeymoon.
Lorelei abandons him to return home, but the husband goes after her to win her back.
The opportunity presents itself at a charity auction.Cowboy Bob Smith captures notorious outlaw Bob Moore, then learns that Moore's real name is also Bob Smith.
Moore convinces Smith to pose as him so that his long-lost sister, who will be arriving to visit him, won't know that her brother is actually an outlaw.
Smith agrees, and when the sister arrives, Smith falls for her.
Things get even more complicated when he finds out that the outlaw Smith's gang is planning on killing him.Harold Lamb , a bright-eyed but naïve young man, enrolls at Tate University.
On the train there, he meets Peggy .
They are attracted to each other.
Harold decides the best way to ensure his popularity at school is to emulate his movie idol, The College Hero, down to mimicking a little jig he does before greeting anyone, and taking his nickname, "Speedy".
However, the College Cad  quickly makes him the butt of an ongoing joke, of which the freshman remains blissfully unaware.
Harold thinks he is popular, when in fact he is the laughing stock of the whole school.
His only real friend is Peggy, who turns out to be his landlady's daughter, described in one of the film's title cards as "what your mother was like when she was young".
He tries out for the football team.
The coach  is unimpressed, but as Harold has damaged their only practice tackle dummy, the coach uses him in its place.
At the end of practice, though he approves of Harold's enthusiasm , the coach is about to dismiss the freshman when Chet Trask , the captain and star of the team, suggests making him their water boy, while letting him think he has made the squad.
Harold is persuaded to host the annual "Fall Frolic" dance.
His tailor is late making his suit; with the dance well underway, it is barely being held together by basting stitches, but Harold puts it on and hopes for the best.
During the party, his clothes start to fall apart, despite the efforts of the tailor  to effect repairs.
When Harold sees the College Cad being too forward with Peggy, working as a hatcheck girl, Harold knocks him down.
The incensed Cad then tells him just what everyone really thinks of him.
Peggy advises him to stop putting on an act and be himself.
Harold is determined to prove himself by getting into the big football game.
His chance comes when the other team proves too tough, injuring so many of Tate College's players that the coach runs out of substitutes.
Hounded by Harold and warned that he will forfeit if he cannot come up with another player, the coach reluctantly lets Harold go in.
The first few plays are disastrous.
Finally, he breaks free and is on his way to winning the game, but, mindful of a referee's prior instruction that he is to stop playing when he hears the whistle, drops the football just outside the end zone when a non-football whistle sounds.
The other team recovers the ball with only a minute left to play.
His teammates are disheartened, but Harold rouses them to make a final effort.
He chases down the opposing ball carrier, knocks the football loose, scoops it up and runs it all the way back for the winning touchdown as time runs out.
Tate prevails by a score of 6 to 3, which at last earns him the respect and popularity he was after.
To top it off, Peggy passes him a note proclaiming her love for him.Tom Steele  is a lineman for a power company.
He meets Nancy Brewster , daughter of a rival capitalist.
Both companies want rights to a strip of land, the ownership of which is to be claimed by the first to stake it off.
Against tremendous odds, and with help of Nancy, whom he rescues from a storm in the mountains, Tom beats Brewster and wins his daughter.An oil prospector, Henry "Hank" Dowling , has raised his free-spirited daughter, Alice "Bingo" Dowling , in the jungle of South America.
He asks his friend, Ben Murchison , to come work with him on oil wells that have paid off.
Just as Ben arrives with Howard Presley , however, Hank is killed by an oil worker who has designs on Bingo.
She has now inherited her father's company and wealth.
Ben is appointed her guardian.
She calls him and Howard both uncles, though they are not related.
She is sassy and without refinement, hitting anyone she disagrees with.
Her "uncles" decide that the wild Bingo should move to New York City, learn proper deportment and enter society.
While they are aboard the ocean liner, she meets the young, good-looking and well-educated charmer Andy McAllister ([[Robert Montgomery .
It is love at first sight for Bingo and Andy, who sing a few songs.
In New York, Andy continues seeing her.
Because she is wealthy and he isn't, however, he is afraid of what people might think and tells her that he cannot marry her and live off her money.
To complicate the situation further, Bingo's Uncle Ben discourages the relationship.
He even offers Andy money to leave her.
When Andy turns to Marjory , an irate Bingo loses her temper and shoots him in the shoulder.
They make up immediately after the shooting and forgive each other.
Changing his mind about leaving her, Andy decides that Bingo is the woman for him and wants to marry her.Johnny Goodlittle, an aspiring detective, enters an abandoned sanitorium while investigating a disappearance.
Here, he discovers that Ziska, a renegade mad doctor, has taken over the asylum.
Now Ziska has captured Betty, Johnny's romantic interest, to use in his mad experiments.
John Bowman, a wealthy farmer, is kidnapped one night after two mysterious men lure his car off the road.
When the wreckage is discovered the next day, constable Russ Mason  forms a search party with Amos Rugg  and Johnny Goodlittle .
Amos and Johnny work at the general store in Danburg.
They are both in love with Betty Watson , the storeowner's daughter.
Attempting to woo Betty, Amos invites her on a drive in the country.
Meanwhile, Johnny has followed a mysterious stranger to the country.
The strange man has lured Amos' car off the road and kidnapped the couple.
Johnny accidentally enters a hidden tunnel, and all three end up at Dr Edwards' Sanitarium.
Once inside, they are greeted by Dr Gustave Ziska , who introduces Rigo , Caliban ([[Walter James , and Daffy Dan , his patients.
Ziska explains that he took control of the asylum after it had closed.
After many attempts to expunge the three hostages, they are captured and sent to a dungeon, wherein Johnny finds Dr Edwards and John Bowman, both kidnapped by Ziska and his cronies.
Dr Edwards tells Johnny that Ziska, Caliban, Rigo and Daffy Dan were once his patients at the sanitarium.
Ziska had been a great surgeon who went mad and began to perform unorthodox operations.
He now intends to perform experiments on Betty and Amos, to discover the secret of eternal life.
Amos and Johnny are captured and brought to Ziska's laboratory, where Betty lies fastened to a surgical bed.
Amos is strapped to the "death chair" and connected to Betty through a transducer, which will exchange their souls.
Johnny eludes Ziska's henchmen and escapes to the roof, sending up flares which are seen by policemen investigating the wreckage of Amos' car.
Having escaped, Johnny masquerades as Rigo and begins to assist the doctor.
He frees Betty and Amos and straps Ziska to the death chair.
Caliban appears and, mistaking the figure in the chair as Amos, activates the transducer, removing Ziska's soul from his body.
Because there is no one on the surgical bed, there is no soul to complete the exchange, and he is rendered lifeless.
Realising his mistake, Caliban is distracted and Johnny captures him.
The policemen enter the laboratory to find that Johnny has successfully apprehended the madmen and located the missing persons.
This is enough to gain him respect as an amateur detective, and to win Betty's heart and hand.Captain William W. Morgan  is a well-respected businessman who owns a fleet of whaling ships in the Quaker town of New Bedford, Massachusetts.
He is very close to his shy, obedient daughter, Patience , and tells her that she must marry a man who is a whaler and a Quaker, like him.
His son and daughter-in-law were lost ten years before while on a whaling expedition; eventually, their baby, his granddaughter Dot , was found floating near shore on a raft made of branches.
He has raised her ever since.
Dot is a mischievous, rebellious child, who wants to be a whaler when she grows up, an ambition that is not acceptable for a female among her people.
One day, a childhood friend of Patience's, Allan Dexter  arrives in town, recently back from college.
He and Patience renew their acquaintance and fall in love.
He goes to ask Captain Morgan for permission to marry Patience, but Captain Morgan turns him out of the house, informing him that he is not a suitable husband for her because he is neither a Quaker nor a whaler.
Meanwhile, Samuel Siggs , an effeminate Chinese man masquerading as a white man, connives to steal Captain Morgan's ships to transport African gold.
He dresses up as a Quaker and acquires a position of authority in Morgan's business by pretending to be an experienced whaler.
After spying Morgan's pretty daughter Patience, he also plans to finagle his way into marrying her.
Learning of Dexter's love for her, he has his fellow con artist Jake Finner , "fearless, lawless and godless", drug the young man's drink and has him kidnapped, tied up, and placed on the next outgoing whaling vessel, hoping never to see him again.
Also on the ship is Dot, who has dressed as a boy and stowed away below deck.
Because of their disappearance, it is rumored that Dexter and Dot joined the Oregon Wagon Train and have gone west together.
Miles out to sea, Dexter is untied and immediately put to work.
Wanting to prove himself to Morgan, he decides to put all his effort into working long hard hours to win his chance to harpoon a whale, which would make him an accomplished whalesman.
Meanwhile Jake Finner, who has killed the captain and taken over the ship, finds Dot, discovers she is a girl, and attacks her.
Because he has been treating the men on board like slaves, they mutiny against Finner, appointing Dexter as Captain, while Dot's friend Jimmie, the cabin boy, rescues her from Finner's clutches.
After harpooning a whale and learning why he was abducted, Dexter arranges to have the vessel return to port.
Meanwhile, Captain Morgan has fallen ill, fears that he is dying, and commands Patience to marry Siggs as his last wish.
She reluctantly agrees.
Dexter arrives just in time to save Patience from her terrible fate, and the lovers are reunited at the end.
The last scene of the film is a memorable shot of 16 year old Clara Bow frolicking in a brightly lit field of flowers.In 1911, two French officers, Capitaine Morhange  and Lieutenant Saint-Avit , become lost in the Sahara desert and discover the legendary kingdom of Atlantis, ruled by its ageless queen Antinéa .
They become the latest in a line of captives whom she has taken as lovers, and who are killed and embalmed in gold after she has tired of them.
Morhange however, already grieving for a lost love and planning to take holy orders, is indifferent to Antinéa's advances and rejects her.
Angered and humiliated, she exploits the jealousy of his friend Saint-Avit and incites him to kill Morhange.
Appalled by what he has done, Saint-Avit is helped to escape by Antinéa's secretary Tanit-Zerga , and after nearly dying in the desert from thirst and exhaustion, he is found by a patrol of soldiers.
Saint-Avit returns to Paris and tries to resume his life, but he is unable to forget Antinéa.
Three years later he returns to the desert and sets out to find her kingdom again, accompanied by another officer to whom he has told his story.
Much of the narrative is contained within a long flashback as Saint-Avit recounts his first visit to Antinéa; other shorter flashbacks are used within this framework, creating a fairly complex narrative structure.The film tells the story of a man who comes to Hollywood to become a star, only to fail and be dehumanized.
He is identified by the number 9413 written on his forehead, after which he dies and goes to Heaven, where the number is removed.The duo are homeless vagrants, until Ollie receives word that he has inherited a fortune from a deceased uncle.
He buys a sumptious mansion and makes Stan his butler.
After a night of indulging in too much champagne, Ollie returns home intent on playing a series of cruel practical jokes on Stan.
Stan retaliates by breaking nearly everything in the house.The title of The Hawk's Nest comes from the speakeasy around which most of the action revolves.
Two bootleggers, played by Milton Sills and Mitchell Lewis, quarrel over a dancer  while a political assassination plot.Terry O'Neil  is the youngest of a group of Irish-American firefighting brothers.
He courts Helen Corwin , the daughter of a politician whose crooked building contracts resulted in devastating blazes.Wally Saunders  wants to marry chorus girl Violet Dayne , but his uncle, Stephen Lee  thinks that all chorines are gold diggers and refuses to give his approval.
Violet's friend Jerry La Mar  is not a gold digger, but she agrees to go after Lee so aggressively that Violet will look tame by comparison.
Of course, the uncle and the friend fall in love and get married, even after he knows the truth about her, and he gives permission for Wally and Violet to get hitched too.IMDB Plot Summary, TCM Full Synopsis, Allmovie Plot SynopsisAfter fifteen years, Joshua Judd  tells his adopted son, Amos , that his real father was an Indian maharajah overthrown by Ali Khan .
Amos, then a young boy , was rescued by General Devi Das Gadi  and taken to America for his safety.
Amos attends Harvard University.
There he incurs the hatred of Austin Slade, Jr. , whom he beats out for a spot on the rowing team.
At a party celebrating a rowing victory over arch-rival Yale, a jealous Slade calls Amos "yellow" and pours a drink on him, causing Amos to punch him.
Slade grabs a chair as a weapon, but Amos ducks, and Slade falls through an open window to his death.
Amos is cleared of all wrongdoing, but the newspaper story attracts the notice of Amhad Beg , Ali Khan's Prime Minister.
That summer, at a party hosted by close friend Stephen Van Kovert ([[William Boyd , Amos becomes attracted to one of the other guests, Molly Cabot .
By chance, Molly and her family decide to vacation in Amos's hometown.
As they become better acquainted, Amos overcomes Molly's initial dislike of him.
However, Molly tells her father  that she cannot marry someone who is not one of her "own people", however much she loves him.
Instead, she agrees to marry longtime suitor Horace Bennett , who had been a good friend of Slade's.
Bennett tells Amos to stay away from his future wife, but when he also calls Amos a murderer, Amos chokes him into apologizing.
As he leaves, Amos is struck in the head by a rock thrown by Bennett.
Seeing this, Molly rushes to Amos's side and breaks off her engagement to Bennett.
The happy couple decide on an early wedding, but Amos has a vision showing him being murdered the day before.
He has had visions before; all came true, even if he tried to prevent them.
His family is supposedly descended from Prince Arjuna; the god Krishna granted Arjuna and all his descendants the gift of prophesy.
When he reveals this to his future father-in-law , the latter suggests he lock himself away in the sanatorium of a friend for the day.
Amos does so, but Amhad Beg and his men find and kidnap him.
Just as they are about to kill him, Amos is rescued by the mystic Narada , who also can see into the future, and his followers.
Narada convinces him to forego his own happiness and return to India to overthrow the tyrant.
When Amos is welcomed by his people and the army revolts, Ali Khan commits suicide.
The new Maharajah of Dharmagar takes comfort in his latest vision, which shows his wedding to Molly.Ben-Hur is a wealthy Jew and boyhood friend of the powerful Roman Tribune, Messala.
When an accident leads to Ben-Hur's arrest, Messala, who has become corrupt and arrogant, makes sure Ben-Hur and his family are jailed and separated.
Ben-Hur is sent to work in the galley of a Roman warship.
Along the way, he unknowingly encounters Christ, the carpenter's son who offers him water.
Once aboard ship, his attitude of defiance and strength impresses a Roman admiral, Quintus Arrius, who allows him to remain unchained.
This actually works in the Admiral's favor because when his ship is attacked and sunk by pirates, Ben-Hur saves him from drowning.
Arrius then treats Ben-Hur as a son, and over the years the young man grows strong and becomes a victorious chariot racer.
This eventually leads to a climactic showdown with Messala in a chariot race, in which Ben-Hur is the victor.
However, Messala does not die, as he does in the more famous 1959 remake of the film.
Ben-Hur is eventually reunited with his mother and sister, who are suffering from leprosy but are miraculously cured by Christ.
{{cite web}}A playbill for a production entitled "Why Girls Leave Home: A Danger Signal on the Path of Folly" is retrieved by a secretary from her employer's waste-paper basket.
She and her boyfriend Edwin agree to go and see the performance.
The leaflet is subsequently found by the maid, Alice, who agree to go to the play with William, the gardner.
The leaflet is then found by Edward, who proposes to take his girlfriend, a minister's daughter, to the show.
The minister also plans to attend.
The group arrive at the theatre and find their seats.
The performance commences, and tells the story of a girl who is being forced into marriage against her will.
Her sweetheart saves her by paying off her family's debts.British Pathe: Why Girls Leave Home(this cite pertains to a 1914 film Why Girls Leave HomeA girl named Alice is stuck while solving a difficult crossword puzzle when her cat Julius tells her they should go to the beach.
They swim in the ocean for a while then dry off and Alice continues her puzzle.
Just as she begins, Pete  demands she gives him her puzzle.
Alice refuses and smacks him in the face.
She then runs into a light house and locks the door.
Pete breaks down the door and chases Alice around the light house.
Alice screams for help and Julius hears her.
He climbs to the top and a fight breaks out.
Julius wins the fight by knocking Pete off the light house.
Alice then discovers the last phrase in her puzzle, "The End.
"The Boys tell their wives they have a business engagement, then sneak off to a poker game.
En route, they stop to help two young ladies with a flat tire, and wind up splattered with mud.
The girls invite them up to their apartment while their clothes dry, and all proceed to get roaring drunk.
A boyfriend appears, sending the duo scrambling out the back window, in full view of their wives.
{{plot}} John Woolfolk and his wife are riding down a country lane in a horse-drawn wagon.
The wind blows some pages from a newspaper across the road, startling the two horses and causing them to bolt.
As the horses take the wagon around a curve at high speed, John's wife is thrown from the vehicle and killed instantly.
Disillusioned, John adopts a reclusive life on the sea, sailing along the Atlantic coast in his schooner Yankee, accompanied only by his ship's mate, Paul Halvard.
One afternoon the men steer the Yankee across a bar into an inlet along the Georgia coast.
The approach of John's schooner is watched disapprovingly by two men —Litchfield Stope, master of the once-grand house that sits on the inlet, who developed a lifelong distrust of strangers during the American Civil War, and Nicholas, a maniacal brutish man who has bullied his way into Stope's household.
At the same time, John is standing on the deck of his boat and surveying the shore through a pair of binoculars.
Woolfolk notices the once-grand house.
He also spies a young woman swimming near the shore – Millie Stope, Litchfield's granddaughter.
After anchoring the Yankee, John takes a rowboat ashore.
As he makes his way toward the Stope's house, he picks a couple of wild oranges off a tree.
Millie comes out of the house and asks, "What do you want?"
"I came ashore to arrange for a supply of water – but I've stolen your oranges," John replies.
"We have plenty of both ... help yourself," Millie responds as she takes John around the house to show him where the water tank is located.
Nicholas secretly watches the interaction between Millie and John and he sees Millie pick four oranges and put them in the pockets of John's blazer.
After John returns to his boat, though, he takes the oranges out of his pockets and throws them into the water.
The next morning, Millie walks down to the shore carrying a fishing pole.
Nicholas intercepts her and demands that she give him a kiss.
Millie screams and attempts to run, but Nicholas grabs her and threatens to put her in the swamp if she doesn't kiss him.
Millie still refuses, so Nicholas carries her into the swamp and puts her atop a cypress root sticking out of the water.
Nicholas moves to the edge of the swamp and laughingly taunts Millie as a couple of alligators menacingly rise from the water.
Terrified, Millie agrees to give Nicholas a kiss if he carries her back to the edge of the swamp.
Nicholas takes a large stick and smacks the alligators, then picks up Millie and, after placing her back on solid ground, turns his head and points to the side of his face.
Millie gives him a quick peck on the cheek.
Later that day, Paul rows to shore with a cask to fill with fresh water.
Litchfield is out on his porch and, when he notices Paul approaching, he hurries into his house and hides.
After knocking on the front door several times, Paul takes the cask around the house and fills it with water from the tank.
Paul starts to carry the full cask back to the rowboat, but Nicholas runs up to Paul, knocks the cask out of his hands and stomps it with his feet.
When Paul tells John what happened, John rows to the shore and confronts Nicholas, telling him to leave his property alone.
Nicholas replies that John should leave Millie alone.
When John gets back to the rowboat, he notices that Millie is fishing nearby.
He hesitates, then goes over to help her reel in what appears to be a sizable catch.
The fish frees itself from the hook, though, causing the pole to flip upward and sending Millie back against John's chest.
The next day, when John and Paul are on the Yankee's deck, Millie comes to the shore and asks to be invited to come aboard.
Paul rows out to get her and, once on board, she surveys the tidy kitchen and living quarters and remarks, "It couldn't be neater if you were two nice old ladies."
Paul notes that there's a good wind for sailing, and at Millie's urging, John agrees to take her on a brief voyage.
Millie begins the trip with enthusiasm, standing on the bow and exclaiming "Free at last — free!"
In a short while, though, her mood transforms into one of apprehension and she runs below deck, seemingly terrified.
John follows her and asks, "Why are you so afraid of things?"
"Heredity," Millie replies, "a curse that descended from my grandfather to my father, and to me."
Millie says she envies John's freedom, but he corrects her: "The only thing I valued in life was taken from me in an instant.
It gave me a freedom I did not want and left me a lonely, aimless wanderer."
When John takes Millie back to shore on the rowboat, they are greeted by Nicholas who is carrying a concealed knife.
Nicholas lunges at John with the knife, but John knocks Nicholas to the ground and knocks the knife away.
An angry Nicholas pulls the branch off a tree and slaps it against the tree trunk before collapsing in a sitting position and crying.
That night on the boat, Millie dominates John's thoughts.
Still fearful of becoming attached to someone, John wakes Paul and instructs him to get the ship under way immediately.
Nicholas confronts Millie and asks her to marry him.
Aghast, Millie tells Nicholas he'll have to leave.
"Don't say that, Millie.
Please don't get me started," Nicholas replies.
Millie runs to her room and blocks the door by putting a chair underneath the doorknob.
John has a change of heart and steers the Yankee back into the inlet.
He tells Millie, "I had to come back – I couldn't go away without you."
Millie warns that Nicholas would kill both of them and shows John a wanted poster seeking Nicholas on a murder charge and containing the warning, "He is a homicidal maniac."
"He said if I ran away he'd kill grandfather," Millie said.
John tells Millie to bring Litchfield to the wharf at eight o'clock that night.
That evening Millie takes her grandfather into the drawing room, shuts the door and begins making preparations to leave.
As she helps him with his coat, his face freezes into an expression of fear as he stares at something behind her.
Millie turns around and is shocked to see Nicholas has partially opened the door and is watching them.
At the wharf, Paul and John light a match to check a pocket watch and note that it's going on nine o'clock.
John tells Paul that if anything happens to him, Paul gets his boat and some cash while Millie will get the balance of his assets.
John then heads up to the house, carrying a gun.
John first enters the drawing room and finds Litchfield's body on the floor.
He hears Nicholas pacing upstairs .
Nicholas is in Millie's room and has tied Millie on her bed and put a gag over her mouth.
John quietly makes his way upstairs and stealthily makes his way down the second-floor hallway.
He catches his foot in a hole in the floor, dropping his gun, and the commotion brings Nicholas out of Millie's room.
The two men begin to fight on the stairwell.
Nicholas brandishes a knife, but John bites his hand, forcing him to drop it.
The men tumble down to the first floor and John pushes Nicholas against a table, overturning a lamp and starting a fire in the drawing room.
Millie has managed to free herself after a long struggle.
She and John head to the wharf with Nicholas close on their heels.
Nicholas and Paul get into a struggle, but Paul manages to push Nicholas away and join John and Millie in the rowboat.
A frustrated Nicholas heads back inside the burning house and finds the gun John dropped.
Nicholas heads back down to the wharf with the gun.
John wants to set sail, but Paul warns that it's low tide and the boat would just barely clear the bar.
John tells Paul to go up on deck and raise the sails anyway.
Nicholas begins shooting at the boat, wounding Paul.
John finishes raising the sails and an injured Paul attempts to steer the boat.
Back on shore, a vicious dog that Litchfield had kept chained up breaks free, runs down to the wharf and savagely mauls Nicholas.
Paul tells Millie to take the ship's wheel just before he loses consciousness.
John takes a pole and begins calling out water depths until the boat clears the bar.Julian  is a poor artist who lives with wife Edith  and their newborn baby in Harlem.
Struggling to make ends meet, he foregoes his artistic calling and draws for magazines.
Reaching his limits, Julian convinces his wife he could reach higher grounds if he were to go to Paris.
He moves to Paris while his Edith works at a shop on Fifth Avenue.
Each of their lives evolves differently—Edith is courted by a wealthy suitor whom she ignores while pining for her husband, while Julian fails to meet his goals in Paris, returning defeated three years later.
The meeting highlight how different their routes have been.Comedy about a naval officer, Harry Mallory  and his would-be bride Marjorie Newton  who spend most of their time running up and down a train looking for a clergyman to marry them.Claire  is sent to Paris by her father  to acquire polish.
A fortune-hunter  stalks her, but so does good guy David Elrod .The film is a semi-historical narrative and depicts the real-life courtship, marriage, and forced breakup of Jérôme Bonaparte, brother of Napoleon, and his wife from the American south, Elizabeth Patterson.
Napoleon did not approve of the union  and the marriage was annulled.
Jerome was subsequently forced to marry Catharina of Württemberg.
They had one child, depicted in the film, Jérôme Napoleon Bonaparte.
In order to provide a "happy ending", Jerome in the film leaves France to be with his wife.
However, in historical fact he remained in Europe.Robert Bennett  is a stockbroker who is very carefree with other people's money.
Encouraging clients to buy stocks in companies that are failing is all in a day's work to him.
His fiancée Dorothy Hall has to raise $40,000 for a charity project, comes to him with $10,000 to invest from her charity group, and wants him to double it within five days.
Meanwhile, E. M. Burke , Frank Connelly , and Clarence Van Dyke  bet Bennett they will pay him $10,000 if he tells the truth for 24 hours.
The men later go to a nightclub where they meet Sabel and Mabel Jackson , who are a gold-digging sister act.
Mabel Jackson sings Do Something.
After the show, the sisters ask Burke to back their show for them.
They are determined to hold Burke to his promise to finance their idea for a show.
and won't take no for an answer.
They hold all the cards, as they have managed to enter Burke's home and refuse to leave without the cash.
Burke's wife Mrs. Burke  learns from Robert that her husband had promised to back the Sisters' show.
which makes his wife furious.
Robert asks every question truthfully, before the 24 hours are over.
His fiancée Dorothy asks him if he loves her and what he had done with all the money, he tells her the answer without telling a lie.
Around 4pm, Robert has won the money by telling the truth.In Granada in Spain, Sibilla works as a dancer in a squalid cabaret called El Dorado, struggling to earn enough to care for her sick child.
The boy's father Estoria, a prominent citizen, refuses them both help and recognition, fearful of jeopardising the engagement of his adult daughter Iliana to a wealthy nobleman.
Iliana however slips away from her engagement party to meet her real lover Hedwick, a Swedish painter.
Sibilla, in desperation after a further rejection by Estoria, sees an opportunity to blackmail him by locking the lovers overnight in their meeting-place in the Alhambra.
When Hedwick learns the truth next day, he and Iliana decide to take refuge at his mother's remote house on the Sierra Nevada, and they propose to Sibilla that they should take her son  with them so that he can be properly cared for in a healthy climate.
Sibilla reluctantly agrees, but she is distraught as she returns to her empty room at El Dorado where she even has to fight off Joao, the cabaret's clown, as he tries to rape her.
Knowing that she will not see her son again, she performs a last dance on stage to rapturous applause before going backstage to stab herself.Raised aboard a ship, Jacques Leroi has never seen a woman until after the death of his father.
Arriving in port in New York, he marries the first woman he meets, the gold-digging Madge.
On an expedition, Jacques finds himself shipwrecked on an island whose inhabitants are shipwrecked as well, and have formed their own society.
There he meets the native-born Mavis.
Once rescued, he returns to New York only to find Madge had dumped him for another man.
He returns to Mavis again and finds happiness.Laurel & Hardy try to sleep in a rent room.
Hardy, suffering from a cold, coughs frequently, while Laurel snores.
Both of them have trouble falling asleep because of this.
They try to solve their problems, but this results in total chaos.
The owner of the room (played by [[Charlie Hall  threatens to throw them out.
When the duo is back in their room, their air mattress is filled up accidentally with gas and blown up so big that Stan and Ollie are pressed against the ceiling.
After they have realized the trouble they are in, they start to panic, at which point the hotel owner and a police officer enter the room.
Oliver sneezes and the mattress explodes.Lloyd plays the grandma's boy, a timid coward who cannot muster courage to woo his girl and is afraid of his rival.
His loving grandma gives him a magic charm from the Civil War which gives him the courage to capture a town criminal and win the girl.
The "magic charm" turns out to be the handle of her umbrella and his grandma was pretending it all along.
This film was an immensely popular, commercially successful film in its time.Bernice Sumners is sent to a finishing school by her Texas uncle after oil is discovered on his property.
At the school she blossoms into a young woman.
Bernice is a compulsive liar.
One evening she and a friend go to a hotel before a theater date, planning to meet popular Paul Carroll, but they run into the school principal in the hotel lobby.
Bernice tells a lie about why they are there, and from there one lie builds upon the other until Bernice ends up in the hotel room of Ralph Ames of the Secret Service, who is in the process of changing .
Bernice calls Ralph her husband, and he plays along until the house of cards comes crumbling down around her.
She ends up falling for the popular Paul Carroll, and the two marry.Naughty but Nice at the AFI Silent Catalog page.
