Set in the 19th century, the plot centered around a man  who is falsely accused murder.
The Other Side of the Door was shot in Monterrey, Mexico.
{{cite web}}Fatty plays a somewhat lazy young man who disrupts his mother's life by causing a fire by smoking in bed, then ruins laundry day by dropping it in the mud.
He has two loves of his life, the girl next door Lizzie and his dog Luke.
After showcasing his lack of talents helping his mother, he is able to save Luke from the dog catchers and express his love for Lizzie through a hole in the fence.
In the second reel, Fatty, Lizzie, mom and Luke go to the amusement park, where Fatty is first outwitted by a couple of sharks but then retrieves his losses by pointing a fake gun at them.
To extract revenge, they kidnap Lizzie with the help of the embittered dog catchers, and take her to an abandoned shack, where they tie her to a post with a gun attached to a timer pointed at her head.
Plucky pup Luke follows the crooks, and is able to warn Fatty in time to perform the last-minute rescue, with the help of the Keystone Cops.
In the closing shot Fatty, Lizzie and Luke embrace in a joint kiss .Esra Kincaid takes land by force and, having taken the Espinoza land, his sights are set on the Castro rancho.
US government agent Kearney holds him off till the cavalry shows up and he can declare his love for Juanita "The Rose of the Rancho.
"A swagman arrives on the scene of the breakdown of a motor car and tells the honeymooning drivers that he's never liked motor cars as they've never done him any good.
He then goes on to explain why - ten years earlier he was living happily with his wife and pretty daughter .
Then the daughter got married to a "swell city cove" and she became a member of the high society set, refusing to meet her unsophisticated mother.
The mother is killed by a motor car and the father takes to drink and becomes a swagman.
{{cite news}}Set in San Francisco during the early 1900s, the film revolves around Amarilly , the daughter of a widowed scrubwoman.
Amarilly is proud of her hard-working Irish family, and takes care of her five roughhouse brothers.
She is engaged to bartender Terry McGowan ([[William Scott , who gets her a job as a cigarette girl in his cafe after a fire unfairly causes her to lose her job as a theater scrubwoman.
While working as a cigarette girl, she meets Gordon Phillips , a handsome and wealthy but frivolous young man, who is a society sculptor.
Terry becomes jealous when Amarilly starts hanging out with Gordon, and he breaks off the engagement.
Gordon offers Amarilly a job with his wealthy and snobbish aunt, Mrs. Phillips .
When the neighborhood is quarantined after a breakout of scarlet fever, Mrs. Phillips decides to take the time to teach Amarilly high class manners in a Pygmalion-like experiment.
However, once she discovers her nephew has fallen in love with Amarilly, she turns against her.
Mrs. Phillips tries to humiliate Amarilly by inviting her family over for a social party.
Amarilly is outraged and returns to her old home.
She sees Terry and invites him for supper.
He is delighted, and on the way to her house, he stops to buy expensive 50 cent violets, even though he had earlier passed up violets at 15 cents.
He is shot by accident, and barely makes it to Amarilly's house before collapsing.
Fortunately, Terry survives.
Amarilly visits him in the hospital and tells him that when he gets out, they have a date at City Hall.
The final scene is five years later.
Amarilly is in a side car on Terry's motor bike; they both are nicely dressed and seem to be doing well.
Then it is revealed under the blanket she has a baby, and behind Terry is a little boy.Cheyenne Harry tries to help his outlaw friend Padden evade arrest after Padden has drunkenly shot another man.
In the end, the two mismatched friends fight it out, leaving Padden dead.
In a romantic subplot, Harry's fiancée Alice leaves him, but finally returns.The 15 chapter story involves the heroine being protected by a shadow with burning eyes.
There's also a cloak of invisibility, some hypnotism and a giant octopus added to the mix.Set in the stone age, King Low-Brow rules the land and a harem of wives.
When Charlie arrives in this land , he falls in love with the King's favorite wife.
When the King falls over a cliff, he is presumed dead and Charlie crowns himself King.
The King, however, is not dead and comes back and bashes Charlie over the head with a rock.
It turns out it was a dream and a police man bashed Charlie over the head with his club because he was sleeping in the park.A young heiress of an American gun factory is threatened by a masked man after her father was murdered.
The criminal might be a member of her family or a German agent, who wants to get information about the factory's products, perhaps his mystery has a combined solution.In the first segment, Willem the Silent  and the Van Brederode are demanding freedom of religion for the repressed Dutch citizens with governor Margaret of Parma .
Charles de Berlaymont, sharing the opinion with Willem the Silent, opposes the Spanish dictation and introduces the 'honorary title' Geuzen.
Together with his men, he swears 'Death or Freedom'.
Meanwhile, Balthasar Gérard , an admirer of Willem the Silent's enemy Philip II of Spain, unexpectedly assassins Willem the Silent.
The second segment features Pieter Corneliszoon Hooft, as he performs at his Muiderslot.
In the following, Maurice of Nassau, Prince of Orange  battles for the Netherlands' independence.
The fourth segment includes Kenau Simonsdochter Hasselaer during the Siege of Haarlem.
Next is the Siege of Breda, where one of the soldiers gets heavily ill, while a battle with the Spanish is near.
The continuing is a description of the siege, ending with the capture of Breda.
The following segment involves the escape of Hugo Grotius from Loevestein via a casket, organized by his wife  and a maid.
Then comes the Siege of 's-Hertogenbosch by Frederick Henry, Prince of Orange .
In an interlude, Rembrandt, Frans Hals and Jan Steen are seen in different scenes creating a painting.
What comes after is a wedding taking place between Kloris and Roosje.
In a bigger story, John William Friso, Prince of Orange  is in Taisnières-sur-Hon to fight the Battle of Malplaquet.
Subsequently, Michiel de Ruyer  and Maarten Tromp  end their struggle after a long fight through help from William III of England .
Attention then shifts to stadthouder William IV, Prince of Orange, followed by William V, Prince of Orange.
Their crown was taken over by Louis Bonaparte.
The film ends with William I of the Netherlands'  arrival in Scheveningen and his oath to the constitution.In Stoney Creek, Dad Hayseed  wins ₤5,000 in the lottery and decides to take his family to Sydney.
The group includes him, Mum, Sam, Jim , Poppy, Molly, Bubs, Peter, Peter and Cousin Harold.
They visit shops, theatres, the gardens, Town Hall, Taronga Zoo and White City.
Someone tells them to walk in the middle of the road so none of the footpads that are supposed to wait around the corners could sandbag them.
Dad goes surfing at Manly Beach and needs to be rescued.
The family meet Norah, a country girl who has gone to work at a low-class Wooloomooloo pub.
Dad rescues Norah from the hands of some bad characters.
Later on, Dad is enticed to the pub buy two spielers on the pretence that Norah needs him, and is drugged.
Norah discovers the plot and tells Jim Hayseed and the rest of the boys, who arrive just in time to save Dad after a brawl.
Dad then gets a letter from Tom announcing that old Spotty the cow has got a calf and that Mum's eggs are hatching.
This makes them get homesick and they go home.
{{cite news}}It is windy at a bathing resort.
After fighting with one of the two husbands, Charlie approaches Edna while the two husbands themselves fight over ice cream.
Driven away by her husband, Charlie turns to the other's wife.Assunta Spina is a laundress living in Naples, engaged to a violent butcher named Michele Mangiafuoco.
She is also courted intensely by Raffaele.
When she accepts Raffaele's offer to dance during an open air feast in Posillipo because she feels Michele is ignoring her, tragedy strikes.
Michele, blinded by rage, slashes her face and is subsequently arrested.
During the trial she bears witness in order to rescue him, saying he never wounded her, but the jury does not believe her.
She is enticed by the court vice-chancellor to strike a bargain—Michele will stay in the nearby prison of Naples instead of Avellino, and at the end of the punishment Michele will kill the vice-chancellor before Assunta's eyes.
She must take responsibility for the act before the eyes of the police in order to save her man.A synopsis of the film, as reported in an October 31, 1915 Paramount Pictures Corporation advertisement in the Ledger-Enquirer : "John and Jane Stuart have been bought up with strict old-fashioned conservatism by their Aunt Angela, so great has been the effect upon Jane that she does no even garb herself in modest gowns, but adheres to the styles long since abandoned by society.
The aunt's extreme economy builds a false barrier between the Stuart children and the Monroe family, their next-door neighbors, with the exception of Stanley Hudson, who becomes a constant visitor at the Monroe home after he has caught a glimpse of Jane over the garden wall.
The attraction proves mutual and the friendship ripens rapidly.
Meanwhile John, Jane's brother, has found the life of Puritanical abstention irksome in the extreme, and has fallen in with a rather wild element whose chief pastime is gambling.
Only the quick action of Jane enables him to escape the well-deserved wrath of his aunt.
A sudden turn in the tide of the Stuart's affairs comes when Jane inherits a huge fortune.
The first effect is seen in John, who promptly sells out to live the sort of existence he has always craved.
Jane, however, continues to live in the same old way, and to wear the same old clothes.
The sudden acquisition of wealth makes the Stuarts a great desideratum  in those circles from which they had been previously barred.
At a reception at the Monroe's, Jane appears in one of her old gowns the very simplicity of which, in sharp contrast to the gorgeous apparel of the other girls, makes her the belle of the evening.
Later, in deference to John's wishes, she arrays herself in resplendent glory according to the latent edicts of Paris and emerges from the modiste's an exquisite vision of loveliness.
Stanley's social standing has captured the imagination of one of the season's debuntantes who declares war upon the unsuspecting Jane.
Other wiles failing, the enamored one, finally bribes an aviator to take Jane into his aeroplane and lose her in order to prevent her from arriving at the boat landing to embark upon a criuse on which they have all been invited.
On the first day out Stanley's attempt to propose to Jane is interrupted by the other girl who, later stages a little scene with Stanley that causes poor Jane untold anguish of heart.
But fate takes a turn for the better and John's wild speculations are changed from lesses to gains while Stanley suddenly spurred to action claims the prise which was his for the asking."
From an October 11, 1915 review of the film in the Portland Oregonian: "Little Miss Mary, with her wobbly curls, piquant face and winning ways, drew capacity audiences all yesterday at the Peoples Theater in 'A girl of Yesterday'.
In this Frohman production Mary Pickford is supported by her clever brother, Jack Pickford.
The film is the initial screen appearance of Glenn Martin, the aviator.
As Jane Stuart, whose poverty keeps her from vogish apparel, 'Little Mary' becomes loved both by members of the smart set and by Stanley Hudson .
The intrigue of rivals causes Jane to be taken up in an aeroplane and left unchaperoned ten miles from the party.
A pathetic scene occurs when, on her return, her plutocratic hostess asks her to leave.
Her brother, disappointed in his love affair, attempts suicide and is rescued by Jane.
Deciding they are out of place, the brother and sister return home.
Stanley, however, remains true and so does Jack's sweetheart, so the ending is happy."
<gallery> File:Girl From Yesterday Still.gif|Promotional Still from the film File:Shot with martin.jpg|A photograph of a scene being filmed of Glenn Martin and Mary Pickford </gallery>Mary and her cousin Clairborne are the last descendants of the Lane family who announce they are selling their land.
Two land scouts come over to buy their property.
One of them, Roland Manning, falls in love with Mary.
The other, Wade Dempster, tries to get his hand on their home by getting Clairborne drunk.
One of the townsfolk finds out of Dempster's way of buying the land and tries to stop it.
Dempster defends himself by shooting him and next blames Manning for the murder.
It doesn't take long before Manning is found guilty and receives a life prison sentence.
Mary tries to set him free and turns to the law to help him.
Mary's former sweetheart Oscar witnessed the murder and finally admits Dempster shot him.
Roland is set free and marries Mary.
They keep the land, start a family and live happily ever after.The New York Times Review summaryTurner Classic Movies SynopsisKarl Von Austreim ([[Jack Holt  lives in America with his German father and American mother.
He notices a young lady, Angela Moore .
As she is celebrating her birthday on the Fourth of July of 1914, she receives flowers from the French Count Jules De Destin .
They are interrupted by Karl, who also gives her a present.
They soon battle for Angela's attention.
To lose his competition, Count Jules arranges for Karl to be sent to Hamburg, where he will have to join his regiment.
Angela is crushed when he announces he has to leave.
The next day, Angela reads in the paper the Germans and French are at war and 10,000 Germans have been killed already.
Three months pass by without a word from Karl.
Karl is wounded in the fighting.
Word spreads that Germany will sink any ship which is thought to be carrying munitions to the Allies.
Angela is aboard one of those ships when it is hit.
Angela saves herself by climbing on a floating table and begging the attackers not to fire on the passengers.
Angela is eventually rescued.
After weeks of ceaseless hammering from the German guns, the French fall back on Vangy.
Angela arrives in Vangy as well to visit her aunt, only to discover she has died.
The Old Prussians are bombing the city and Angela is requested to flee.
However, she is determined to stay to nurse the wounded soldiers.
Meanwhile, the Germans enter the chateau with the intention of getting drunk and enjoying themselves with the young women.
A French soldier tries to help Angela escape, but she is unwilling to.
He next asks her to let a French soldier spy on the Germans and inform the French via a secret hidden telephone.
Angela is afraid, but gives them permission.
The Germans are intent on raping Angela, who is the only person in the mansion not to be hidden.
She reveals herself to be an American to save herself, but they do not believe her.
Angela attempts to run away and hide, but is discovered by a German soldier who turns out to be Karl.
Angela orders him to save the other women in the house, but Karl responds he cannot give orders to his fellow Germans.
She realizes there is nothing she can do.
With permission to leave the mansion, she witnesses the execution of the French soldiers.
She is heartbroken and decides to go back in for revenge.
Angela secretly calls the French with the hidden telephone and informs them that there are three gun holders near the chateau.
The French prepare themselves and attack the Germans.
The Germans realize someone is giving the French information and Karl catches Angela.
He tries to help her escape, but they are caught.
The commander orders that Angela be shot.
When Karl tries to save her, he is to sentenced to be executed as well for treason.
As the couple face death, the French bomb the mansion, enabling Angela and Karl to escape.
They are too weak to run and collapse near a statue of Jesus.
The next day, they are found by French soldiers.
They initially want to shoot Karl, but Angela begs them to set him free.
They eventually allow her to fly back to America with Karl by her side as a German prisoner.The plot concerns the rivalry between two neighboring sheep stations, Enderby and Waratah.
This version includes the subplot about the bushranger Ben Hall which was not used when the play was adapted again in 1933.Lloyd is a serious young middle-class guy on the make, who wants to marry the boss’ daughter.
The problem is getting in to see the boss so that he can ask for her hand in marriage; the office is guarded by a bunch of comic, clumsy flunkies who throw everyone out who tries to get in.
When Lloyd gets into the boss’ office, the latter uses trap doors and conveyor belts to expel him; Lloyd then goes to the costume company next door, tries to get in wearing drag , and then in medieval armor – that works, since he bangs everyone over the head with his club, but then he finds out that the daughter has eloped with another suitor.
Lloyd decides to be sensible and he settles for the cute switchboard operator  instead.
The film includes a brief wall climbing sequence.
Light-hearted, short, fast-paced.Small town youth Jimmie Bates  is a well-intentioned, but troubled youth.
Jimmie is a rowdy boy who is always getting into trouble and playing pranks on his friends and neighbors.
Although deeply in love with young Mary , he eventually spurns Mary's affection for the more outgoing and worldly young Ruth .
Eventually, Jimmie's father Mr. Bates , in a fit of exasperation with the boy's antics, beats him severely and Jimmie runs away from home.
While on the lam Jimmie becomes involved with a criminal gang of thieves and Jimmie serves a sentence in jail.
After completing his sentence, Jimmie vows to turn over a new leaf.
However, the gang of thieves decide they are going to rob Jimmie's hometown bank.
Jimmie tries desperately to foil the attempt during the robbery and is wounded and arrested by the sheriff  as the robbery suspect.
Jimmie escapes from jail and seeks out his true love Mary who hides Jimmie at her home and nurses him back to health.
After regaining his strength, Jimmie sets about vindicating himself to his parents and townspeople.
Jimmie eventually pursues and captures real perpetrator in his father's yard.
After his capture, the criminal finally admits that Jimmie was not a participant in the robbery attempt and Jimmie is finally redeemed in the eyes of his family.Babe  and Kate  are sweethearts.
They live in the rather conservative town of Cordeliaville where there are laws which prohibit both romancing and babies.
A new mother arrives in Cordeliaville and notices the sign.
Rather than leaving town, the mother leaves her baby... at Kate's doorstep.
Kate and Babe try to hide the baby which, in turn, gets passed from person to person until it is reunited with the mother.A wealthy couple leave their young child with a nanny while they attend a social event.
While under the care of the nanny, the child wanders off into the yard and strolls down to the beach with her doll and gets into a boat.
The boat drifts away out to sea and the girl is rescued by nearby fishermen who take her to their humble shack.
Meanwhile, the nanny who was reading a book realizes the child’s disappearance and alerts the parents.
When the parents arrive they find only the child’s bonnet and the doll’s stroller near the beach and assume the child had drowned.As the American Civil War begins, Ned Burton leaves his Southern love, Agatha Warren, and joins the Union army.
He is later protected and saved from death by Agatha in spite of her loyalty to the South.Legend Barney Oldfield stars in this early Sennett comedy.
He races a speeding locomotive to rescue Mabel Normand who plays a damsel in distress tied up on the tracks by evil villain Ford Sterling.Harry's bride is murdered at their wedding, and the good-hearted outlaw turns grimly malevolent.
One by one he stalks his wife's killers, dispatching them all until he finally sets his sights, mistakenly, on Sheriff Gale Thurman.
The lawman bests Harry and keeps him hiding outside town in the wilderness.
Straying into the same wilderness, the Sheriff's girlfriend is first overtaken by highwaymen, then rescued by Harry, only to be taken captive by Harry when he realizes who she is.
At first threatening to harm the girl, Harry slowly falls in love with her, all while hostile Apaches attempt to kill them both.
By the time the Sheriff tracks them down, a full-scale assault is under way, and the two men join forces.
Harry realizes the Sheriff's innocence, but it is too late: the lawman is dead from his battle wounds, but he has saved his girlfriend - and Harry.Dr.
Henry Jekyll  sends a note to his fiancée, Alice , and her father  to say that instead of accompanying them to the opera, he must give more time to his charity patients.
At Jekyll’s practice, his friends Dr. Lanyon  and Utterson , a lawyer, ridicule him for what they consider his dangerous research.
Alice and her father also visit Jekyll’s rooms, but although apologetic, the doctor insists on devoting his time to his patients.
That night, however, Jekyll undertakes a dangerous experiment, swallowing a drug intended to releases his evil self.
His body convulses, and he transforms into a hunched, twisted figure.
The strange creature emerges from Jekyll’s room, bearing a note in Jekyll’s handwriting that orders the household staff to treat the stranger – “Mr Hyde” – as himself.
Hyde then slips out into the night, terrorising the patrons of a nearby tavern before finding himself lodgings.
From these rooms he begins a career or evil, until one night he attacks and injures a crippled child.
Outraged witnesses corner Hyde and force him to agree to compensate the boy.
Hyde reluctantly leads one man back to Jekyll’s house and gives him money.
During this passage of events, a worried Dr. Utterson sees Hyde entering Jekyll’s house.
Inside, Hyde takes a potion that transforms him back to Jekyll.
The doctor swears that he will abandon his experiments and never tempt fate again; but that night, without taking the drug, he turns spontaneously into Hyde.In the modern times, an antique dealer  finds a golem , a clay statue brought to life by a Rabbi four centuries earlier.
The dealer resurrects the golem to use him as a servant, but the golem falls in love with the dealer's wife.
As she does not return his love, the golem turns to a series of murders.A small town's drama group is preparing for a Pocahontas-type play, when one of the member's English relatives suddenly arrives for a visit.
This man, unlike the theater group, does not have any sense of humor, which sparks the relative and his friends to play practical jokes on him.
They dress up as Indians to scare them, but the Englishman is so convinced, that he grabs his gun to shoot at them.
At another moment, they try to get revenge by pretending to attack him, but the plan again backfires when the Englishman uses a prop gun from a heroine to horrify them.Review Summary The New York TimesDorothy North is the four-year-old child of the wealthy lawyer Winfred North.
Her mother is deceased and her father is remarrying widow Helen Stillwell.
Helen is annoyed with the presence of Dorothy and treats her as if she is always in the way.
She runs away home and is taken under care by missionaries.
While Dorothy accompanies her new foster parents to Africa, Helen informs Winfred his daughter is lost.
Winfred unsuccessfully tries to find Dorothy, who is growing up to a young woman in Africa.
At the age of fifteen, her foster parents are killed by Zulus.
She is separated from her sweetheart John Armstrong and boards back to America.
Here, she finds employment in a florist shop.
John followes her to New York City and locates her real father.
They are all reunited and Winfred breaks with his Helen.TCM Review SynopsisSylvia is the niece of a man who leaves her a fortune.
However, his lawyer Mr. Baxter uses the money to support him and his wife.
Sylvia gives him a visit, but isn't wanted there.
She falls in love with his son Arnold, who has a drinking and gambling problem.
While she is trying to get him straightened up, Arnold find out his parents are keeping Sylvia's money for their own.The New York Times Review summary The story involves Arbuckle coming to the western town of Mad Dog Gulch  after being thrown off a train and chased by Indians.
He teams up with gambler/saloon owner Bill Bullhorn , in trying to keep the evil Wild Bill Hickup  away from Salvation Army girl, Salvation Sue .
Fatty and Buster have a series of adventures trying to beat St. John, until they discover his one weakness: his ticklishness.Faro Fan inherits a saloon and gambling hall in Red Butte and runs it with such wholesomeness that she has a positive influence on the peaceful town.
Fan also devotes her time to the care of a group of orphans she has adopted.<ref name"THE LADY OF RED BUTTE" At the Palace Today|publisher1919-07-08}}{{cite news}}Florence Grange , a pretty young Danish woman, is vacationing with her father, her brother, George, and her fiance, Leslie, at a luxurious seaside hotel in Denmark.
One evening, while they are sitting in the restaurant, George introduces them to a young American named Andrew Larson .
Andrew, who is a Mormon priest, is quickly attracted to Florence and gives her an "admission card" to a Mormon meeting.
Although Florence cares greatly for Leslie , he often neglects her while pursuing other interests.
Florence spends much time with the strangely fascinating American, enabling Andrew to indoctrinate her and convince her to go to Utah with him.
Partly in passion and partly in hypnotic trance, Florence runs away and meets Andrew at the railway station.
After her disappearance, her father searches her room and finds the note from Andrew asking her to come to the train.
Leslie and George  inform the police of Florence's disappearance and the police notify the harbor patrol.
With help from a Mormon friend, Andrew drugs Florence, then exchanges her hat and coat with another couple, enabling Andrew to sneak Florence aboard a steam ship heading for America.
The harbor patrol detains the couple wearing Florence's clothes.
When George and Leslie arrive to get Florence, the ruse is revealed, but the ship has already sailed.
While on board, Florence has a change of heart and wants to return home.
Andrew assures her that they will return home.
A telegraph is sent to the ship about the kidnapping, but Andrew overpowers the telegraph operator before his plot can be revealed.
The ship arrives in America and Andrew escapes with Florence to Salt Lake City where he locks her in a bedroom.
George and Leslie leave aboard the next ship for America.
Florence gains the sympathy of Andrew's first wife , but an attempt to set Florence free is unsuccessful when Andrew discovers it.
One day, Andrew leaves home to perform a baptism at the Mormon temple.
George and Leslie, having arrived in Salt Lake City, follow Andrew to his house.
Andrew convinces them that Florence is elsewhere in the city.
While the two race off on a wild goose chase, Andrew conceals Florence in a dark, dank cellar with a secret trapdoor entrance.
Realizing that they were tricked, Leslie and George burst back into Andrew's house and search desperately for Florence, but cannot find her.
Andrew continues to plead his innocence.
By luck, Florence discovers the hidden button which opens the secret trap door to her cell.
Leslie frees her and promises he will never again neglect her.
Andrew pulls a pistol and tries to kill Florence.
Leslie prevents him and during the ensuing struggle Andrew shoots himself and dies.A newspaperwoman finds trouble aplenty when an Inca tribe believes her to be the reincarnation of their long-lost princess.Cheyenne Harry escapes from jail and lies low, working as a hired ranch hand.
When he discovers a missing child in the wilderness, however, a complex plot of honor and secrecy unfolds.Charlie and his wife are walking in the park when they encounter Ambrose and his wife where they become attracted to each other's wife and start chasing them around the park.
The policeman is looking for a masher.The premise of the story was that Pauline's wealthy guardian Mr. Marvin, upon his death, has left her inheritance in the care of his secretary, Mr. Koerner, until the time of her marriage.
Pauline wants to wait a while before marrying, as her dream is to go out and have adventures to prepare herself for becoming an author.
Mr. Koerner, hoping to ultimately keep the money for himself, tries to turn Pauline's various adventures against her and have her "disappear" to his own advantage.Polly Biggs  is the eldest of a family of orphaned children who are taken in by their uncle, Mayor Hoadley .
Hoadley despises the children and has only taken them in as good publicity for the upcoming election.
His wife, Mrs. Hoadley  is equally cruel to the children, especially Polly.The New York Times Movies One day, Polly Biggs takes the children fishing and meets a young man named John Oxmore , who is the son of the opposing mayoral candidate.
When she returns home, Polly discovers that her uncle intends to send all the children to the poorhouse as soon as the election is over.
Polly plans to take revenge on her uncle and immediately takes the children to the poorhouse herself, rather than let her uncle do so.
Mayor Hoadley, frightened that voters may be incensed to learn that his nieces and nephews are living as orphans in a squalid poorhouse, goes to retrieve them.
When Polly sees his car arriving at the poorhouse, she and the children flee.
They find an unoccupied cabin in the woods where the brood of youngsters settle in.
Unbeknownst to Polly, the cabin is owned by John Oxmore, the young man she met earlier.
After Oxmore finds them at his cabin, he grants Polly permission to keep the children there.
However, the next day he is accused of a murder committed by Mayor Hoadley.
Although John was at the cabin at the time the murder was committed but he says nothing, in hopes of sparing Polly and the children.
After John is arrested and Polly discovers his fate, she rushes to the courthouse and announces that John couldn't have committed the crime because he was with her and the children when it occurred.
John is released and the cruel Mayor Hoadley is arrested and convicted of the crime.The Fall of a Nation is an attack on the pacifism of William Jennings Bryan and Henry Ford<ref nameRothstein |firsthttp://movies.nytimes.com/movie/90923/Fall-of-a-Nation/overview |titleMovies.nytimes.com |date2009-10-30}} and a plea for American preparedness for war.
{{cite news}} America is unprepared for an attack by the "European Confederated Army", a European army headed by Germany.
However, America is saved by a pro-war Congressman who raises an army to defeat the invaders with the support of a suffragette.
According to IMDb the film is split into three sections: "A nation falls", "The heel of the conqueror" and "The uprising two years later".A father takes his daughter on a trip to Bermuda in an attempt to separate her from a suitor.
Little does anyone know that the suitor has stowed away on board.
When he is discovered, he is credited with catching a crook.
The hapless hero receives a reward, and also the girl.When poor old widow Berlingot asks Tyltyl and Mytyl, the young son and daughter of her more prosperous neighbors, for the loan of their pet bird to cheer up her ill daughter, Mytyl selfishly refuses.
That night, when the children are asleep, the fairy Bérylune enters their home in the semblance of Berlingot, before transforming into her true beautiful appearance.
She insists that the children search for the bluebird of happiness.
She gives Tyltyl a magical hat which has the power to show him the insides of things.
As a result, the souls of fire, water, light, bread, sugar and milk becoming personified, and their pet dog and cat can now speak with their masters.
Before they all set out, Bérylune warns the children that their new companions will all perish once their quest is achieved.
The fairy then takes them to various places to search.
At the Palace of Night, the traitorous cat forewarns the Mother of Night, having heard the fairy's prediction.
The dog saves Tyltyl from one of the dangers of the palace.
In a graveyard, the dead come alive at midnight, and Tyltyl and Mytyl are reunited with their grandmother, grandfather and siblings.
They receive a blue bird, but when they leave, it disappears.
Next, they visit the Palace of Happiness.
After seeing various lesser joys and happinesses, they are shown the greatest of them all: maternal love in the form of their own mother.
Finally, they are transported to the Kingdom of the Future, where children wait to be born, including their brother.
Nowhere do they find the bluebird.
Returning home empty-handed, the children see that the bird has been in a cage in their home the whole time.
Mytyl gives the bird to Berlingot.
She returns shortly afterward with her daughter, now well.
However, the bird escapes from the daughter's grasp and flies away.
Tyltyl comforts the upset neighbor girl, then turns to the audience and asks the viewers to search for the bluebird where they are most likely to find it: in their own homes.
Two families live next to one another in a French village on the eve of World War I.
The Boy in one of the families falls for the only daughter in the other family.
As they make preparations for marriage, World War I breaks out, and, although the Boy is American, he feels he should fight for the country in which he lives.
When the French retreat, the village is shelled.
The Boy's father and the Girl's mother and grandmother are killed.
The Girl, deranged, wanders aimlessly through the battlefield and comes upon the Boy badly wounded and unconscious.
She finds her way back to the village where she is nursed back to health by The Little Disturber who had previously been a rival for the Boy's affections.
The Boy is carried off by the Red Cross.
Upon his recovery, the Boy, disguised as a German officer, infiltrates the enemy occupied village, finds the Girl, and the two of them must kill a German sergeant who has discovered them.
Von Strohm, by whom the Girl had narrowly escaped rape earlier in the story, discovers the dead sergeant and locates the Boy and Girl who are locked in an upper room at the inn.
It's a race against time with the Germans trying to break the door down as the French return to retake the village.Socialite but penniless orphan Lily Bart is living with her wealthy aunt who insists that she takes upon herself a rich husband.
Balking at this idea and remaining faithful to her impecunious sweetheart Lawrence Seldon , Lily is desirous of maintaining her luxurious lifestyle: she acceptes the financial "favors" of some married millionaires but refuses to surrender her virtue in return - until she discovers that her sainted Seldon has been fooling around with another man's wife.Mabel goes home after being humiliated by a masher whom her husband won't fight.
The husband goes off to a bar and gets drunk.Spies from Japan conspire to steal the Channing "preparedness" fortune and invade the United States, beginning in New York, then allying themselves with Mexicans across the border.
They are stopped by the efforts of munitions factory heiress Patria Channing and U. S. Secret Service agent Donald Parr.Richard Thayer, a shy, unassuming man , is in love with a sheltered young woman, Elizabeth  Lane .
While the feelings are mutual and Richard wishes to propose, he can never find a moment to speak to Beth alone--she is constantly surrounded by admirers and her overprotective father .
Richard explains his predicament to his friends, young married couple William and Maude Harcourt .
They agree to help by hosting Richard and Beth at a private dinner at their home.
Beth's father agrees to let her dine with the Harcourts, but insists that she keep to an 11:00 curfew.
The evening of the dinner William Harcourt receives a telegram from a prospective business associate, Bradford ([[William Dyer , informing him that he is arriving that night for a surprise visit.
The announcement throws the Harcourts into a panic.
William has recently mortgaged his home and life savings to buy a copper mine; he is counting on a $1-million investment from Bradford to save his business and house.
He does not have any servants to welcome the millionaire, having fired them earlier in the day in a fit of rage.
Working together, the four friends devise a plan: Richard and Beth will pose as the Harcourts; the real Harcourts will play the servants because they are familiar with the layout of their house.
The scheme initially works, but things quickly deteriorate when Bradford, an eccentric, overbearing man, starts flirting with Maude Harcourt and insisting that Richard and Beth turn in for the night.
The situation worsens when Beth misses her curfew and her father shows up at the Harcourt home to look for her.
Eventually, everything is solved, but not before Col. Lane is locked in the pantry, Richard falls out a window and William is tossed out of his own house.
All Night is one of Valentino's earliest films, and one of the only ones in which he plays a comedic role.
In contrast to the screen persona of "The Great Lover", his character of Richard Thayer is shy and insecure.
For this film Valentino performed several scenes of physical comedy and pratfalls, including falling from a window into a barrel of water.
He was originally billed in the film as Rodolpho de Valentina.
Only one print of All Night is known to exist; it has suffered some nitrate deterioration, especially in the fifth reel.
However, it has been preserved and made available to the public on VHS and DVD by an independent film dealer.Frank Andrews  is a well-to-do, middle class apartment dweller who is devoted to his wife  and two children, John  and Jane .
Andrews enters into a mid-life crisis when a fetching young lady, Cleo , moves into the apartment next door to the Andrews'.
Cleo takes note of Andrews' interest in her and begins to flirt with him, going so far as to set a fire in her apartment in order to attract his aid.
Before long, Andrews and Cleo are involved in an affair, and Andrews begins to neglect both his family and responsibilities at work.
Humiliated and aghast at her mother's silent suffering over the situation, Jane goes next door with the idea of killing Cleo, but instead they strike up a conversation, and a mutual understanding.
They hatch a plan whereby one of Cleo's former beaus  appears to be courting Jane in front of Andrews, who swiftly condemns his daughter's interest in the man.
Jane counters by pointing out Andrews' own poor moral choices, and he sees the error of his ways.
Andrews is happily reconciled to his family, and Cleo sets out in search of new digs.A painter turned tramp , devastated by losing the woman he was courting as a wealthy man, finds himself drunk and getting drunker by the minute with some sailors at a bar until he's literally falling down.
He keeps futilely trying to draw the woman's picture on the floor with a piece of chalk until he finally passes out cold  at the end of the film.Plump  and Runt  are both interested in the same girl, Elsie.
She agrees to marry the suitor who obtains the better job opportunity.The mother of a dead Union soldier attempts to convince President Lincoln to pardon a similarly condemned Confederate soldier whose unjust conviction was the result of her vindictive scheme.Thanhouser literature describes it as "A laughable parody on Sherlock Holmes.http://www.nitrateville.com/viewtopic.php?t=8562"Charlie is in charge of stage "props" and has trouble with actors' luggage and conflicts over who gets the star's dressing room.
Small caricatures on the wall indicate both the stars and the head of what can only be Charlie Chaplin with the word "PROPS" below.
Once the dressing-room issue is resolved the next issue is getting everyone on stage with the correct backdrop.
The order of performance, all of which we see is: The "Goo-Goo Sisters", billed as comediennes; two young girls dancing "Garlico" and his Feets of Strength ; a strong-man aided by his beautiful assistant who gets knocked out just before she goes on stage, allowing Charlie to step in.
"Sorrow" a drama performed by a man and woman.
During the performances we see the audience reaction throughout, ranging from delight to booing.
Backstage Charlie and an old man fight, often distrupting the on-stage performances.
The audience also break into a fight, and a hose brought out behind the scenes ends up squirted over them.Chaplin plays a waiter who fakes being a Greek Ambassador to impress a girl.
He then is invited to a garden party where he gets in trouble with the girl's jealous boyfriend.
Mabel Normand wrote and directed comedies before Chaplin and mentored her young co-star.No copy of Hinemoa survives, but the film would have told the story of the legend of Tutanekai and Hinemoa.Melissa Stark is the daughter of evangelist Jethro.
Her father is involved with several intense family feuds.
Meanwhile, Melissa tries to support het father financially by making money-making schemes.
It doesn't take long before she has to deal with a lawyer, whom she falls in love with.Story SummaryCohen  and his rival Goldberg  enlist in the Union Army during the American Civil War.
Goldberg receives a lieutenant’s commission while Cohen becomes a sergeant.
During the Battle of Gettysburg, Cohen inadvertently becomes a hero when he tosses back an enemy hand grenade and raises a fallen flag in the midst of the conflict.
Goldberg conspires to have Cohen shot by a firing squad, but Cohen’s girlfriend Rebecca  rides to the rescue and details Cohen’s battlefield bravery.
Cohen is hailed for his valor and later exacts revenge on Goldberg.Charlie plays an actor who bungles several scenes and is kicked out.
He returns convincingly dressed as a lady and charms the director, but Charlie never makes it into the film.
The plot involving a man dressing up as a woman is quite popular in old silent movies.Fairbanks plays a hedonistic New York City aristocrat who tries to change his selfish ways by heading to Sonora, Texas to carry out a campaign of altruism.
Along the way, he is mistaken for a Mexican bandit and is pursued by a corrupt sheriff who is in pursuit of the bandit's hidden fortune.The Knickerbocker Buckaroo at silentera.com database Thompson, Frank.
"Lost Films: Important Movies That Disappeared," pages 86-89.
Citadel Press, 1996.
ISBN 0-8065-1604-6Wealthy John von Zwenken  lives with his daughter and son-in-law in a castle named De Werve.
One day, he returns from hunting and is informed that a new child has been welcomed in the family.
Disappointed and ashamed that the child is a girl, John introduces her to his friends and staff as a boy.
Shortly after the delivery, the mother dies and the baby is left in John's hands.
Twelve years later, young Frans  lives an unusual life, having been raised as a boy by John and sgt.
Rolf .
Her nanny's  attempts to teach her how to be a girl have been unsuccessful.
Meanwhile, the Colonel receives a visit from his son Rudolf .
Rudolf promises to better his life, but is quickly lured back in Leiden's nightlife.
All of this happens during Frans' birthday.
With her grandfather absent due to a business travel, her wish is to invite aunt Roselaar , who has not been on speaking terms with John for years, due to a huge debt.
She has now been paying the money back by supporting Frans' education, and is thus shocked to find out that Fras is a girl.
Because a girl requires less education money, Roselaar feels betrayed and leaves angrily.
As a consequence, Frans  is sent to a boarding school, where she spends her years showing rebellious behavior against her superiors.
She is expelled when she one day rides a horse spontaneously, but shows no remorse and returns to De Werve.
After a warm welcome, she finds out that her grandfather is no longer able to afford the castle, so she proposes to raise money by organizing a fox hunt.
When this proves unsuccessful, she turns to her uncle Rudolf for help, though he responds by leaving to join the army.
A terrible soldat, Rudolf deserts the army, but is caught and jailed.
A De Werve member has been condemned a scandal, so Frans makes it her goal to help him escape, on condition that he passes the boarder and never returns to the Netherlands again.
Following, Rolf has inherited a fortune and uses the money to co-support De Werve by moving in.
Simultaneously, Frans meets Roselaar's cousin Leopold van Zonshoven .
Leo - who was granted the fortune meant for Frans - has been sent to De Werve by Roselaar to court Frans.
Frans has never experienced love, though she feels immediately attracted to Leo.
However, his attempts to financially support the family does not please her, for as her pride does not allow her to accept money from outsiders.
In the heat of anger, she fights Leo and accidentally slashes him.
Frans feels guilty and makes up with him, and accepts when Leo proposes to her.
However, when she misinterprets that Leo will inherit all of Roselaar's money while the Von Zwenkens remain ignored, she becomes furious, until finding out that her grandfather has died of old age.
Despite the financial situation, she buries him with military honor.
Assuming that she will lose De Werve, Frans abandons the castle and explores the world, still filled with grief.
She eventually finds work at a circus, where she runs into Rudolf as her colleague.
When Rolf hears about this, he feels ashamed and begs Leo to do something about it.
Leo, who has bought De Werve, will be traveling for a few years and offers Frans to live in the castle during his absence.
There, she finds out that the Von Zwenkens are indeed included in Roselaar's fortune, and she sets out to find Leo and apologize to him.
They eventually kiss and start a life together.In this serial, Dr. Burton Montrose, a scientist, has developed a formula which he believes will make ordinary people into geniuses.
He experiments on several subjects and, to his horror, finds that it instead creates wicked criminals.
The resulting band of murderers and thieves is led by the evil Pierre La Rue, also known as the Crimson Stain for his luminous, red-rimmed eyes.
He and his gang terrorize New York City.
They are pursued by Layton Parrish, a detective, and by Harold Stanley, editor of the Examiner newspaper, who has vowed vengeance for his father's murder.
Aiding Stanley are his friend, Robert Clayton, and his sweetheart, Florence Montrose, Dr. Montrose's daughter.
Neither she nor anyone else knows the mysterious Crimson Stain to be none other than the doctor himself, subject of his own experiments.The day before the Christmas holiday, Ebenezer Scrooge, a hard-fisted miser, refuses to contribute to the Charity Relief Committee, and then rudely rejects his nephew Fred when he visits Scrooge in his office.
When Scrooge returns home, he sees the ghost of his former business partner Jacob Marley, who warns him of the punishment he will suffer in the next life if he does not change his ways.
That night, Scrooge is visited by three more spirits, who show him his past, the present, and the future that awaits him.Lily, an innocent young girl, is convinced to pose nude for a young sculptor.
They fall in love, but the sculptor fears the effect of marriage on his work and neglects Lily.
Ultimately, in despair, she marries a wealthy older man but does not find happiness there.
Only near-tragedy and scandal are able, ironically, to bring her that happiness.Chimmie is sent out west as part of a scam by a railroad company.
He is to pretend to find gold, then retreat as the company takes advantage.
Things do not go as planned.Cheyenne Harry gets drunk and sells Cactus, his faithful horse .
Consumed with regret, he takes a job aboard the ship where Cactus is kept and the two escape in a midnight jump overboard.The Red Circle is a birthmark, on the hand of the heroine, noticeable only in times of stress and excitement, which forces her to steal, leading to no end of complications and intrigue.Liz Simpkins is the daughter of town drunk John.
While keeping the household, she falls in love with minister Henry Pennfield.
Meanwhile, Mildred Holcombe, the daughter of the wealthy David, falls in love with artist Arnold Brice.
One night, she is secretly at his place.
Liz knows about her whereabouts and stops by to warn Mildred her brother Arthur is coming over.
Mildred is able to sneak out just in time, but Arthur catches Liz in Brice's room.
This incident causes a big scandal.
Because her father has recently died of alcoholism, it is decided Liz will be sent to an institution.
The selfish Mildred begs Liz not to tell the truth, because her father will never forgive her if he finds out the truth.
However, Henry witnessed the conversation and announces he will marry Liz.The New York Times Review summaryFrederick Ward is a cattle drover earning money for his wedding when he is accused of cattle theft and sentenced to seven years at Cockatoo Island.
He escapes by swimming across the water only to learn that his fiancée, Jess Anson, has died of grief.
He seeks his revenge by taking on a life of crime, becoming the bushranger Captain Thunderbolt.
He befriends some aboriginal people, steals a racehorse, "Combo", and robs the Moonbi Mail Coach.
He then enters "Combo" in a horse race and wins.
He is rescued from a police trap involving Chinese by a half-caste girl, Sunday.
He is grateful to her and they get married.
He then holds up the Carlisle Hotel, and narrowly escapes.
He takes on a boy apprentice and Sunday dies.
Thunderbolt then dies in a shoot out with police.
{{cite news}}Chaplin and Sterling play two young men, Masher and Rival Masher, who fight over the chance to help a young woman  cross a muddy street.
Sterling first sees the woman trying to cross and offers her an umbrella he stole from a policeman, and asked her to wait for him as he goes to get something to help her.
Then Chaplin comes along and offers the woman to help her cross as well and wait for his return.
While Sterling and Chaplin go to get the logs, a policeman  lifts the woman across the street.
When Sterling returns with the log, he was indignant that the woman did not wait for him to come back to help her cross the muddy street, and demands the umbrella back.
When the woman refused, they engage in a fight which eventually involves Chaplin.After some witty observations on the glamour of the Broadway scene the film tells the story of "The Girl" and "The Boy", she a chorus line girl and he a writer.
They are both struggling to make it big and have trouble paying their rent in a boarding house run by a stern landlady with a simian toughguy bailiff character.
The Girl is fired and The Boy tries to get to the Musical Director to pitch his play.
After rejection and numerous antics The Boy wins big in gaming and ends up with The Girl.The story concerns a soldier who deserts his regiment and encounters a wagon train of settlers.
He returns to his unit in order to elicit help for the would be settlers who are attacked by American Indians.Set around the capture and escape of Geronimo, a prominent Native American leader of the Chiricahua Apache, the film is a period drama involving a love affair between Lieutenant Parker and Pauline, Major Wilkins’ daughter, and the jealous Captain Gray.
Gray secretly releases Geronimo held prisoner at Fort Sill and Parker is dispatched to find Geromino.
After succeeding in throwing the blame on Parker, Gray receives orders from Major Wilkins to take both Parker and Geronimo prisoners.
Pauline learns of the ruse, however, and while attempting to warn Parker, is captured by Geronimo who also takes Parker prisoner.
Parker and Pauline manage to escape.
Subduing Captain Gray and his men, Geronimo prepares to execute them.
Rescued by Lieutenant Parker, Gray nonetheless has him jailed to face a court-martial but Pauline finally clears Parker of the charges against him.Fisherwoman Marcia Manot  finds an emerald which belonged to a Norse queen, and is cursed.
Fortune hunter Silas Martin  marries her to get the emerald.
After her father is killed by an outlaw, Dolores  marries Peter.
While they are at sea in the Arctic, Dolores meets the ship's captain, who is the man who killed her father.
The captain causes an 'accident' to happen to Peter, so Dolores is all alone and defenceless as they drop anchor in a remote harbour.BackGodCountryPK.pdfIn the introduction a woman is shown descending into insanity after having lost her baby.
As she mourns, she takes a blanket from the baby's cradle and starts rocking it as if it were her deceased child.
This serves as an introduction to what kind of individuals that reside at the mental institution.
The doctor at the hospital is also introduced as he proposes to a nurse.
The remainder of the film takes place at the aforementioned setting which hosts several unstable individuals.
When violence erupts between two patients; one of them  escapes the scene in an attempt to avoid capture.
At the climax of the chase; the patient is ultimately soothed by the music emitting from a piano in the main hospital building  and lets himself be taken away by the guards.
As he is removed from the vicinity of the music; he once again becomes violent and escapes the grasp of his attendants.
After having come upon a gun he makes his way towards the house of the doctor's wife .
When the woman discovers him; she becomes terrified.
During the farce; the wife puts her hands on the piano by accident, creating a sound which appears pleasing to the lunatic.
He urges her to continue, using the gun as a tool of persuasion.
She proceeds with the playing which ultimately results in him leaving the house and once again welcomes capture.
The film ends informing the viewer on how music becomes an integral part in aiding mentally unstable individuals.Jess Slocum is a mountain girl who was stolen as a baby by moonshiner Jim.
She was raised to hate America, but is now taken in by Captain Earle Neville when Jim is sent to jail.
Earle takes care of Jess, who is wounded, but she is afraid of her new surroundings and soon runs back to the mountain.
On her way back, she overhears a group of Mexican planning to destroy the nearby camp.
She rushes back to warn them and is declared a hero.
Jim confesses Jess is the daughter of Colonel Tremaine.
He took revenge on the Colonel when he was thrown out of the camp.
Jess is reunited with her father and falls in love with Earle.The New York Times Review summaryPlot summaryStella Maris  was born paralyzed and is unable to walk.
Her wealthy parents try to prevent her from being exposed to all the bad that is happening in the world.
She is not allowed to leave her room in a London mansion and is bound to her bed.
Her door even has a sign on it which says: "All unhappiness and world wisdom leave outside.
Those without smiles need not enter."
Review of "Stella Maris" on Alternative Film Guide Stella has no idea a war is going on in the world and that there are poor and hungry people.
John Risca  is a well-known journalist and a friend of the family.
He has been unhappily married to Louise for six years now and frequently visits Stella.
John wants Stella to think he is perfect and lies about being married.
Louise, meanwhile, wants a servant in her house and hires orphan Unity Blake .
Unity is uneducated and has been deprived and mistreated for her entire life.
This resulted in her being afraid of everyone.
One night, a drunk Louise gives Unity the order to get some groceries from the supermarket.
Unity does as told and on her way back, the food is stolen by kids.
She returns to the home only to get beaten up by an outraged Louise.
Unity is severely hurt and Louise gets arrested.
It is announced she will have to serve three years in prison.
John is kinder to Unity and adopts her.
Unity is very grateful and falls in love with him.
John himself is only interested in Stella.
John wishes Unity to be raised at the Blount's residence, but they don't want her.
They prevent her from meeting Stella, fearing Stella will notice there are suffering people in the world.
They finally convince John to raise Unity at Aunt Gladys' house.
In order to make John fall in love with her, Unity starts to educate herself.
Meanwhile, Stella gets an operation and is able to walk after three years.
She meets John and they fall in love.
One day she decides to give John a surprise visit.
Louise, who has just been released from jail, opens the door and tells Stella the truth about her marriage.
Stella is heartbroken.
Meanwhile, Unity wants to do John a favor by killing Louise.
She realizes she and John never can be a couple and writes him a note which says he should get together with Stella.
She next kills herself, making the police think it was a revenge murder.
John is reunited with Stella and they marry.
The American oyster King dictates to a room full of typing writing women.
He smokes a large cigar held by one of his many butlers at his side.
One butler scurrys in to say, “Your daughter is in a fit of raging madness” Ossi, in the other room, has destroyed the room by throwing everything onto the floor.
Mister Quaker oddly jogs through the house to see Ossi on the other side of the mansion.
When Mister Quaker peeps in, Ossi throws newspapers at him.
He asks, “Why are you throwing those newspapers?” and the brat replies with, “Because all of the vases are broken.” Ossi is clearly angered, and in a big mess.
She shows her father a newspaper that says the Shoe cream king’s daughter has married to a count.
This is what Ossi is upset about.
Mister Quaker is not impressed but tells Ossi that he will buy her a prince.
With this, Ossi can’t contain herself, jumps up, and hugs her dad ever so enthusiastically.
She is so happy, she could smash the house with joy!
We then meet Seligson, the matchmaker, who is dealing with a woman with a turned up nose.
She complains about the price and how all of the bachelors have imperfections.
She then leaves unsatisfied.
As she exits, Ossi enters the room smiling and hands the matchmaker a note from Mister Quaker.
It says, that because of the shoe cream king’s daughter is married, and because oysters are more important, then his daughter should be married too.
She needs a man with a family tree that is in accordance with the Oyster king’s.
The matchmaker searches his wall full of bachelors and comes across Prince Nucki.
Nucki lives high up in a building on the 47th floor, he has heavy debts, and is not inclined to marriage.
With the great match, the matchmaker leaves instantly.
Meanwhile, Ossi is instructed in the ways or marriage which happen to be all about babies.
Her instructor is a strict looking woman in black with thin glasses and hair ever so tightly pulled back.
Ossi bathes the doll and shakes it off to dry it.
She is yelled at for not holding it correctly, and Ossi snaps back at the teacher and continues to shake off the doll.
Then, she is instructed to powder the baby, but unknowingly powders its face.
Ossi is so confused about why she should powder its bottom that she exclaims, “that’s funny.” She goes to touch the bottom but disgusted, tosses the naked doll behind her, across the room, and proceeds to throw powder puff at the instructor.
We enter the small flat of Prince Nucki where he and his friend Josef, both in nice dress suits, are hand washing clothes and hanging the wet clothes around the flat to dry on lines.
The matchmaker comes to meet Nucki.
When he rings the bell, Nucki and Josef look at each other in a fright and begin to take off all of their rings, and other nice materials, thinking it might be their poorer friends, but when Josef sees that it is Seligson, they hurry to put on all of the rings and jewelry they just took off.
Josef greets the matchmaker and tells him that he will see if the ‘highness’ will see him.
“In the meantime, take a seat on the banister,” Josef says.
When he goes back in, the two of them scamper around to fix up the place to make it look decent, and start throwing things off screen.
When Seligson enters, Nucki is upon a throne of an old chair and a wooden box.
Seligson tells Nucki that he’s got a nice match.
He tells Nucki that the light-haired Ossi has hair as black as night, to which Nucki shakes his head but who cares when the girl has that much money.
Nucki decides that he needs to send his adjutant to look at her.
Josef and Nucki can't believe that the matchmaker actually believed them.
They fix Josef up in a suit and top hat.
Back at the Quakers, Ossi grows impatient after a grueling hour and a half of waiting.
She is all flustered so she snags Mister Quakers paper out of his hands, but he must be used to this because he simply pulls another out of his pocket.
Ossi declares that if she doesn’t have a husband in five minutes, she’ll demolish the house.
To this, Mister Quaker welcomes her to it and hands her a vase to smash.
To his invitation she breaks a mirror with the vase, but Mister Quaker calmly replies, “ I’m not Impressed.”  Josef shows up at the Quakers.
Upon arrival, all of the waiters, butlers and other workers of the house standing at attention, bow to Josef and then take away his hat and cane in a hurry.
One asks for his card, and after a few moments of fumbling around his borrowed coat, he gives Nucki’s card to the butler.
This is where all of the confusion starts.
When she gets the card, Ossi becomes so excited to know the prince is there.
Josef waits in the unusually large drawing room where you can't even see the ceiling.
Quaker is taken to his room to sleep while Ossi is readied.
This is a long process.
Ossi does nothing to get herself ready, because she just has all of her maids do it for her.
She is carried from room to room on a conveyor belt of women.
Josef begins pacing around the room, faster and faster.
Josef is startled at how quickly ten servants show up after pushing a single button.
Josef is impatient, and Quaker is not impressed at all.
By the time Ossi is finally ready, both Quaker and Josef are asleep.
She walks in, looking quite similar to before, takes one look at Josef, and says, “Good Lord, he looks stupid!” But this doesn’t stop the marriage-thirsty Ossi, and she rushes them off to be wed in a hurry.
She doesn’t even bother to wake her father, or introduce him to her soon to be husband.
The two ride off in a carriage drawn by 10 horses.
Ossi wants a quick marriage so they visit a priest at his house and have the ceremony through his window, where Josef doesn’t even say a word for Ossi declares that he has nothing to say anyways.
After the quick I do, they pay the priest, and rush off, back to the Quaker house.
When Ossi introduces her new husband to the servants, they boil over with laughter.
Josef then is sent to introduce himself to Quaker, but when he asks how to get there, all he gets is a ridiculously large sized map and a friendly, “Bon Voyage!” Josef is mistaken for a butler and is ordered to blow Quakers nose.
When Quaker finds out that he isn’t a butler but really his son-in-law, he states, “I’m not impressed.”  On account of the hurry, the wedding celebration includes only the closest family members.
Dozens upon dozens of waiters, butlers, and chefs rush around to prepare a feast for the 50 closest family members.
There are lines and lines of waiters waiting to serve the guests.
Josef is in heaven and is scarfing food and chugging his drinks.
Mister Quaker makes a toast, “Excuse me for introducing you to my son-in-law,” to show his feelings about the new member of the family.
Ossi punches Josef and tells him so ironically to not be so greedy.
Josef’s toast is short, saying that he hasn’t had that much to eat in a while.
"A Foxtrot Epidemic Suddenly Breaks Out During The Wedding" There is a gigantic band and a wide dance floor in one room where the Foxtrotters enter and dance around.
The band has an animated bandmaster who likes to move around, and shake his stuff.
As everyone dances, Ossi dances alone.
Quaker tells her to not dance so unrestrained, but she thinks that’s rubbish and continues to dance.
At this point, every person in the house is dancing, even the workers.
The kitchen has become another dance floor.
Ossi dances with a waiter, and Quaker dances with a guest.
The band plays on with its unique instruments such as the man slapping another man on the beat.
Josef in the other room, continues to gorge himself with food and drinks.
While Josef is enjoying himself thoroughly, Nucki is at home eating his usual, pickled herring.
His friends barge in and ask him to come along on a spree.
At the end of the party, Quaker is tired and sweating like a pig, and Josef is happily still up drinking, sitting in a room filled with his empty bottles.
He can barely walk, but somehow makes to the bedroom where Ossi goes in her room and sends him to the other.
He tries to grope her and go to her room, but a butler sends him back over to his room.
Right after, Quaker goes to the door to sneak a peek on the two, but only finds the lone Ossi already sleeping with her teddy bear, at which he seems not impressed.
Nucki returns from the spree.
The men are all drunk and stumble over to some benches to rest.
Nucki deliriously stumbles over to speak to a horse on a carriage.
That morning, Ossi attends the official breakfast for young women given by the Multi-Millionaires’ Daughters Association Against Dipsomania.
They toast, “Down with dipsomania!” They then have their consulting hours, only because their patients will sober up by themselves if they don’t cure them first.
All of their patients are these drunken old men.
Nucki is driven over by the carriage, and is takes in to be helped.
When the daughters see Nucki, the only handsome and young man, they go wild, and fight over him, which he doesn’t mind at all.
They decide to have a boxing match to decide who will cure the man.
The women file into a room already dressed in boxing attire, and fight to the last one.
Ossi is the last one standing, and immediately falls for Nucki, the raving drunkard.
She sneaks in a kiss, and then takes him to a ‘private treatment’ which just so happens to be in her bedroom.
When Ossi leaves, Josef gets up and goes over to peek into Ossi’s room, only to find s man lying in her bed, so he runs to tell Quaker.
Ossi returns to Nucki, her patient, and they flirt, and find that they are fond of each other.
They kiss, but are upset because they want to be together but she has already been married, and he thinks he has to soon, so they burst out into tears.
Josef bursts into the room and realizes that it’s Nucki and starts laughing uncontrollably.
He asks them, “Do you know that you two are married to each other?“ and then explains to them that he has gotten married under Nucki’s name.
Nucki and Ossi are so happy at this they kiss some more.
The real wedding.
This time around, it is just the Quaker, and the Bride and groom at a small table.
Nucki and Ossi can hardly contain themselves, and escape off to her bedroom without Quaker even noticing.
Once he notices that he is the only one left at the table, he goes to find them.
He peeks into their room only to find them cuddling in bed.
Quaker is so happy that the only thing he can say is, “Now I&#39;m impressed!”Edna's father wants her to marry wealthy Count Chloride de Lime.
Charlie, Edna's true love, impersonates the Count at dinnerCharlie and his friend Ambrose meet in a restaurant and accidentally leave with each other's coats.
Charlie was going to pick up a baby bottle and Ambrose was going to mail a love letter that was in his coat pocket.
Charlie's wife finds the letter and thinks he has a secret lover and Ambrose's wife believes he has an illegitimate child.
Controversy arises in the park between Charlie and his wife and Ambrose and his wife.
It is resolved at the end, but Charlie sparks another fight between the other couple by showing his friend's wife the love letter that was in his pocket.Ann  is a young girl who has been living in an orphanage since infancy.
She is disliked and spurned by the other children, and treated coldly by the orphanage administrators—the reason for this, however, is unclear.
She is told by the orphanage cook Black Cindy  during a palm-reading that she will be cursed until she is married.
Ann's stay at the orphanage is an endless series of unhappy circumstances; she steals a doll belonging to a popular girl named Goldie , then accidentally breaks the doll, thereby adding to her loneliness and misery.
One day, while the children are napping, a fire breaks out in the orphanage and Ann heroically saves Goldie from the flames.Hoodoo Ann at Yahoo!
Movies Impressed with Ann's selflessness, a kindly couple, Samuel and Elinor Knapp  take her in and later adopt Ann.
Ann immediately becomes smitten with a neighbor boy named Jimmie Vance  and the two youths begin courting.
Believing that her "curse" is coming to an end, Ann attends a motion picture with Jimmie.
Enthralled by the action-filled western film she had witnessed, the following day Ann is inspired to imitate the film's main character Pansy Thorne while playing with a gun.
Unbeknownst to Ann, the gun is loaded and a round goes off and the stray bullet enters a neighbor's house.
Ann tentatively peers through the window and is shocked to see her neighbor, Bill Higgins ([[Charles Lee  lying on the floor.
Believing she killed Mr. Higgins, Ann is despondent, sure that the curse is still upon her and fearful that Jimmie will never marry her now that she has committed murder.The New York Times Movies: Hoodoo Ann After tearfully confessing to her "crime" and a subsequent investigation into the peculiar disappearance of the body of Mr. Higgins, the town is shocked when Mr. Higgins returns home several days later and reveals that he had simply left town to avoid his wife's incessant nagging.
Overjoyed, Jimmie and Ann marry and the "hoodoo" is lifted.
But the wedding ceremony is not entirely a happy affair; Ann appears distracted and pensive throughout, leaving the viewer to wonder if she perhaps believes that the curse is still upon her.AFI Catalog: Silent FilmsSilent film femme fatale, Louise Glaum, portrays the role of Mignon, a Parisian music hall celebrity.
Mignon marries a young American civil engineer, John Stanley, portrayed by Matt Moore.
Stanley is transferred to Egypt to work on an engineering project in the Sahara.
Mignon and her son, portrayed by Pat Moore, join Stanley in the desert.
Unhappy with life in the desert, Mignon leaves Stanley and her son in the desert and moves to Cairo with the wealthy Baron Alexis, portrayed by Edwin Stevens.
Mignon lives in Baron Alexis' palace while Stanley goes blind and becomes addicted to drugs.
Mignon later encounters Stanley and her son, who have become beggars in the streets of Cairo.
Mignon returns to the desert to care for her husband, and the two are reconciled.Dimples is a young girl, whose father dies.
She goes to the South to live with her aunt, but doesn't know her father has hidden his legacy in her doll.
She falls in love with Robert, who is threatened with financial ruin.The New York Times Review Plot summaryDuring World War I, a professional thief known as The Lone Wolf is assigned to steal a cylinder with important information from behind the German lines and bring it to Allied intelligence headquarters.
However, German agents set out to stop him, headed by the man who was responsible for the death of the thief's sister.A police officer finds a baby in a trash can, and Mrs. Lippett, the cruel matron at an orphanage where children are made to work, names her "Jerusha Abbott" .
The orphan, who comes to be called Judy, does what she can to stand up for the younger children, frequently clashing with both Mrs. Lippett and the cold hearted trustees.
At one point she leads a rebellion against being served prunes with every meal and at another, steals a doll from a selfish rich girl to lend to a dying orphan.
Years later, wealthy Jervis Pendleton, a mysterious benefactor, pays to send Judy, now the oldest and most talented child in the orphanage, to college.
He insists, however, that Judy must never try to contact him in person.
Judy calls him "Daddy-Long-Legs," and writes to him, however.
Judy proves popular with her wealthier and more "aristocratic" classmates, and writes a successful book to repay "Daddy-Long-Legs" the money he spent on her.
She is generally happy but misses not having any real family members to take pride in her accomplishments.
Judy also finds herself caught up in a romantic triangle with the older brother of a classmate and an older man .
She eventually chooses the older suitor and is delighted to learn that he is her "Daddy-Long-Legs.
"A young sculptor searches for the perfect model to inspire his work.
He finds a poverty stricken girl who he thinks is the model he has been looking for.
When she wanders off he visits all the famous statues in Manhattan hoping to find her again.Just Rambling Along is Stan Laurel's earliest surviving work and the first project he did with film producer Hal Roach  The story is of a poor young sap who can't seem to get a break.
He's thrown out of a diner, and then finds a wallet, which is immediately snatched away from him by a little boy.
Stan tries to fight the boy for it, but the boy's father, a police officer, stops him.
Stan gives up and walks away.
Next the Pretty Young Lady, played by Clarine Seymour, woos him and a park bench full of men back into the diner.
When the hostess sees Stan, she kicks him out on his rear end.
Out on the street, he finds the little boy playing with the wallet.
He quickly snatches it away and goes back into the diner.
When the hostess tries to throw him out a third time, he shows her that he has money to pay for a meal.
Before going to the serving line, he pauses to flirt with the pretty young lady, who promptly throws a drink in his face.
He then goes up to the serving line where the chef gives him a taste of everything he has to offer that day.
Stan stuffs his face, but shakes his head and tells the chef that he doesn't want any of it.
He only wants a cup of coffee.
When the chef has his back turned, Stan stuffs his pockets and boater full of food.
He goes back to the pretty young lady's table, sits down, and tries to flirt with her once again.
While he's eating, she switches their tickets, and gets up to leave.
He follows her to the cashier and realizes he's left with her bill, which he cannot pay.
He tries to sneak out of the diner, but he's caught and thrown out on his rear for the third and final time.
The film ends with the cop roughing him up as the young boy looks on.When her boyfriend proposes to her, Roberta is confinced he stole the jewelry he proposed to her with.
She is right, but doesn't know her boyfriend wasn't informed when he bought one.A reformed outlaw enlists the aid of his former gunslinging companions to defend a small shepherd community from domineering cattle barons.Carlotta's fiance Giovanni, in need of money, sells her to white slavers.
She is saved by her father and a friend, Tony.
"The Menace to Carlotta" lonchaney.org accessed 23 April 2010Set in late 12th century England, this silent adventure is filled with pageantry and excitement as it chronicles the star-crossed love between a dashing knight and a beautiful Jewish maiden.
Wilfred of Ivanhoe , son of Sir Cedric , returns to England from the Crusades in the Holy Land.
As Ivanhoe, disguised, discovers that his beloved Lady Rowena  has remained faithful, two weary travelers, Isaac of York  and his pretty daughter Rebecca , are admitted to Sir Cedric's castle, but after the knights learn that Isaac has money they abduct the visitors to the Norman stronghold of Torquilstone Castle.
When Ivanhoe realizes that Sir Cedric and Rowena have also been captured, he enters the forest, where he meets Robin Hood  and the Black Knight, actually King Richard, the Lion-Hearted .
Their band defeats de Bois in battle, but the villain escapes with Rebecca, later charging her with sorcery.
As Ivanhoe defeats de Bois in single combat, King Richard arrives, revealing his identity and reclaiming the crown from his traitorous brother, Prince John .
Sadly, Rebecca must undergo a period of suffering, as well as come to terms with the loss of the man she loves, and witness the nuptials of her gallant Ivanhoe and the beautiful Rowena.King Krewl ([[Raymond Russell  is a cruel dictator in the Emerald City.
He wishes to marry his daughter, Princess Gloria ([[Vivian Reed  to a buffoonish pantaloon of an old courtier named Googly-Goo , but she is in love with Pon, the Gardener's boy ([[Todd Wright .
Krewl employs Mombi  to freeze the heart of Gloria so she will not love Pon any longer.
This she does by pulling out her heart  and coating it with ice.
Dorothy  runs away with the now heartless Gloria, accompanied by Pon and eventually the Scarecrow .
Mombi catches up with the travelers and removes the Scarecrow's stuffing, but Dorothy and Pon are able to re-stuff him; Gloria wanders off.
In an effective use of deep focus photography, they meet the lost little boy, Button-Bright .
The party next arrive at the Tin Castle of the Tin Woodman , who has rusted solid.
Mombi reaches the Tin Castle, and the Tin Woodman chops off her head; however, this merely slows her down as she hunts for it and places it back on.
Having replaced her head, Mombi encounters Pon and turns him into a kangaroo.
Dorothy, Button-Bright, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman escape from Mombi by crossing a river on a raft.
As in the original novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Scarecrow's barge-pole gets stuck in the river bed and leaves him stranded, until he is rescued by a bird.
At one point in this sequence, the Scarecrow slides down the pole into the river, resulting a brief "underwater" sequence featuring puppet fish and a mermaid; throughout, the Scarecrow makes asides to the camera, mostly without intertitles.
The party encounter the Wizard , who tricks Mombi by letting the group hide in the Red Wagon, pulled by the Sawhorse; when Mombi attempts to follow them, the group escape out the back of the wagon.
The four companions meet the Cowardly Lion, who joins them.
The Wizard traps Mombi in a container of "Preserved Sandwitches" and paints out the "sand" and the plural, carrying her away in his pocket.
The Scarecrow, taking a barrage of arrows, tosses Krewl's soldiers over the battlements to deal with the Cowardly Lion, who cannot climb the rope ladder over the city wall.
With the support of the people, the Scarecrow is easily able to depose King Krewl.
The Wizard releases Mombi, and compels her to restore Pon to his normal form and unfreeze Gloria's heart.Peter Hale  is returning to America from overseas via steamship to receive his inheritance.
On board, he receives a telegram warning him to beware the Double Cross.
He doesn't know what it means, until he becomes enamored of a mysterious woman occupying cabin no.7.
When a submarine is sighted, there is panic on shipboard.
Peter and the mysterious woman are thrown together, and in the ensuing action, he sees a double cross symbol on her right arm, just below the shoulder.
When the ship arrives in New York, Peter loses track of the woman.
His father's will stipulates that he is to marry a woman, "perfect in mind and body," who has been selected for him.
She will reveal herself to him when the time comes, and he will know her by the sign of thee double cross on her arm.
If anyone else marries her, then that person will inherit the Hale fortune.
Pondering this in his hotel room, Peter overhears Bridgely Bentley , a gangster and social pirate, reveal a plan to bilk Herbert Brewster out of some valuable land.
Brewster is unaware that there are valuable oil reserves beneath the land.
Peter knows Brewster, who was a friend of Pete's father.
Peter races ahead and obtains an option on the property to keep Bridgely from carrying out his scheme, thereby earning his enmity.
But Peter also finds that Brewster's daughter, Phillipa, is the woman he met on board the ship.
He begins to woo her, but is puzzled by how she at times accepts his courtship, and the next minute, rejects him, claiming that they have never met.
When he tries to confront her, a Masked Stranger intervenes, telling him he must be true to the girl of the Double Cross.
Bentley finds the original letter sent to Peter and realizes that if he can marry the girl of the Double Cross, the Hale fortune will be his.
The rest of the serial plays variations on these conflicts.
Rather than traditional cliffhangers—the death traps are usually foiled in the course of each episode—the chapters end on an air of mystery or tension about what exactly is going on.Burton Grant exposes politician Jarvis McVey as a crook in a newspaper and is run out of town.
He asks his daughter Sylvia to turn his job over to editor Frank Summers.
Sylvia inherited her father's talents and decides to fire Frank and take over the newspaper herself.
Meanwhile, Frank finds out McVey is involved in a scheme concerning the city franchise.
When Sylvia is informed, she publishes the news.
Soon, the towns people are after her and her father comes back to protect her against the outraged townsfolk, while Frank concerns about proving her reliability.Turner Classic Movies - SynopsisIn 1863 Ben Hall and his men raid the household of the Keightley family, who resist the attack for six hours.
During the fight a member of the gang, Mick Bourke, is accidentally shot by one of the bushrangers and he begs Hall to put him out of his misery.
The Keightleys run out of ammunition and surrender, and Hall and his men spend the night at the homestead.
Hall offers to spare Mr Keightley's life if he can raise £500 and gives his wife eight hours to ride thirty miles to Bathurst to collect the money from her father at the bank.
She manages to accomplish this just in time, and Hall leaves the homestead with the Keightleys alive.Andrew Pike and Ross Cooper, Australian Film 1900–1977: A Guide to Feature Film Production, Melbourne: Oxford University Press, 1998, 17.Mary McGuire  is a working-class young girl who lives in a New York tenement and supports her mother and her shiftless father and uncle.
Two items in the March 27, 1919 edition of the New York Star catch her attention.
The first is a news item about the famous dancer Gloria du Moine going into hiding over a scandal involving her relationship with the Duke de Sauterne.
.
The second is a classified ad for the Peach Tree Inn, a nightspot that aims to be the "snappiest roadhouse this side of Monte Carlo."
The Peach Tree's ad seeks a female hostess and dancer: "A Good Future For A Girl With A Past."
Mary applies for the job.
To help cinch the deal, Mary tells Peach Tree manager Larry McKean  that she's really Gloria du Moine.
Larry asks her why she's dressed so shabbily.
Mary replies that her servant absconded with all of her clothing, leaving her to wear the servant's clothes.
Mary—or rather, Gloria—gets the job, and the Peach Tree Inn promotes its grand opening night, featuring Gloria du Moine.
In the audience for Gloria du Moine's Peach Tree opening night is Jimmy Calhoun , scion of the millionaire contractor Michael Calhoun .
The young Calhoun meets Gloria and finds her enchanting.
He tells his father he'd like to propose to her.
Michael Calhoun arranges a small, private dinner party at the Peach Tree Inn in honor of Gloria.
The elder Calhoun hopes that Gloria will make some sort of faux pas that will discourage his son from seeking her hand in marriage.
Meanwhile, the Duke de Sauterne  has arrived in New York from Europe and noted the press announcements touting Gloria du Moine's performances at the Peach Tree Inn.
The duke sets out to see her at the roadhouse, and his arrival coincides with Michael Calhoun's dinner party.
The duke is escorted into Calhoun's private room.
He gives no indication that Gloria du Moine is an imposter.
At sunrise, the dinner party guests are still at the Peach Tree Inn, sleeping off the drinks they consumed during the evening.
Gloria/Mary wakes up and hurries upstairs to her lavish private suite.
The duke also wakes up and follows her, and Jimmy follows him.
Jimmy and the duke get into a fight, and the duke sends Jimmy tumbling down the staircase.
Mary runs outside, gets into a car and heads for her family's tenement apartment in New York City.
The duke and Jimmy follow her separately in their own cars.
The duke arrives first, follows Mary up the stairs to the apartment and forces his way in.
He grabs Mary and tries to kiss her.
Jimmy arrives and engages the duke in another fight.
A detective arrives and apprehends the duke for deportation to Europe on accusations of being a swindler.
Jimmy's father arrives, notes Mary's humble surroundings and grants his blessing for Jimmy to marry her.Viola Drayton is a girl with a fascination for fairies.
Her father goes off to England to help soldiers in World War I and leaves Viola in care of his attorney Mr. Nevinson.
He sends the Nevinsons $30,000 to spend on Viola.
When word reaches town Mr. Drayton has been killed in the war, the Nevinsons decide to keep the money for themselves.
Viola now lives in drudgery and one day runs away after harsh treatment.
She joins the chorus of a musical comedy, but yet again is treated brutally.
She leaves the theater, still dressed in her fairy costume.
A waif notices her and thinks she is a real fairy.
He takes her under his care.
Later, it appears Mr. Drayton is still alive.
The Nevinsons reach out a reward for the one who returns her.
They eventually have to pay back Mr. Drayton.
Meanwhile, a police man notices Viola and reunites her with her father.Turner Classic Movies ReviewVeidt portrays a successful violinist, Paul Körner, who falls in love with one of his male students.
A sleazy extortionist threatens to expose Körner as a homosexual.
Flashbacks show us how Körner became aware of his orientation and tried first to change it, then to understand it.
Körner and the extortionist end up in court, where the judge is sympathetic to the violinist, but when the scandal becomes public, his career is ruined and he is driven to suicide.
The film opens with Paul Körner  reading the daily newspaper obituaries, which are filled with vaguely worded and seemingly inexplicable suicides.
Körner, however, knows that Paragraph 175 is hidden behind them all &mdash; that it hangs over German homosexuals "like the Sword of Damocles."
After this thesis statement, the main plot begins.
Kurt Sivers ([[Fritz Schulz  is a fan and admirer of Körner, a violin virtuoso, and he approaches Körner in hopes of becoming a student of his.
Körner agrees and they begin lessons together, during which they fall for one another.
Both men experience the disapproval of their parents.
Neither are out, but Sivers's object to the increasingly large amount of attention he focuses on the violin and his unusual infatuation with Körner, and the Körners do not understand why he has shown no interest in finding a wife and starting a family.
Körner sends his parents to see his mentor, the Doctor .
The Doctor appears several times in the film, each time to deliver speeches more intended for the audience than the advancement of the plot.
In this, his first appearance, he tells Körner's parents: {{cquote}} After Körner's coming out, he and Sivers begin seeing each other more openly.
While walking together, hand in hand, through the park, they pass a man who recognizes Körner.
Later that day, when Körner is alone, this man, Franz Bollek  confronts him and demands hush money or else he will expose Sivers.
Körner pays him and keeps it a secret from Sivers that he does so.
Eventually, however, the blackmailer's demands become too great and Körner refuses to pay.
Bollek decides instead to break into Körner's house while he and Sivers are performing, but he is discovered by Sivers and Körner on their return and a fight breaks out.
In the course of the fight, Bollek reveals to Sivers that he has been blackmailing him.
Sivers runs away and faces hardships trying to survive alone.
Körner is left dejected and, over a photo of Sivers, remembers his past.
His first memory is of boarding school, when he and his boyfriend Max are discovered kissing by their teacher and he's expelled.
Next, he remembers University and his solitary and lonely life there, and the growing impossibility of trying to play straight.
He remembers trying an ex-gay hypnotherapist, but finding him only to be a charlatan.
Then he first met the Doctor, whose reaction was much different from those he had previously met.
Among other things, he told him: {{cquote}} Remembering on, he recalled first meeting Bollek at a gay dance hall, and Bollek leading him on before ultimately turning on him and using his homosexuality to blackmail him.
Back in the present, Körner takes Else Sivers , Kurt Sivers' sister, to the Doctor's lecture on alternative sexuality.
The Doctor speaks on topics such as homosexuality, lesbianism, gender identity, intersexuality, the perils of stereotypes, and the idea that sexuality is physically determined, rather than a mental condition.
Körner reports Bollek for blackmail and has him arrested.
In retaliation, Bollek exposes Körner.
The Doctor gives testimony on Körner's behalf, but both are found guilty of their respective crimes.
Bollek is sentenced to three years for extortion.
The judge is sympathetic to Körner, and gives him the minimum sentence allowable: one week.
Allowed to go home before his starting his term, Körner finds himself shunned by friends and strangers alike, and no longer employable.
Even his family tells him there is only one honorable way out.
He attempts to dance wearing only Max's old lederhosen but slips over.
He then takes a handful of pills and kills himself.
Sivers rushes to his side as he lies dead.
Körner's parents blame Sivers for what has happened, but Else harshly rebukes them.
Meanwhile, Sivers attempts to kill himself as well, but the Doctor prevents him and delivers his final speech: {{cquote}} The movie closes with an open German law book, turned to Paragraph 175, as a hand holding a brush crosses it out.Jason Honeycutt ([[Harold Goodwin  is a young boy who lives with his stepfather chief Steve Honeycutt  at the ancestral Honeycutt's home.
One day the chief is looking for the 13-year-old mountain girl Mavis Hawn , who is shooting bullets in the woods.
Mavis desires for revenge after a few gang members tornished her home and shot and killed her father.
One of her only friends is geologist and school teacher John Burnham .
He suggests her to get an education instead of teaching herself to use a gun.
Chief Honeycutt visits Mavis' widowed mother Martha Hawn  and flirts with her.
Meanwhile, Mavis is fishing at a pond near her home with Jason.
He reveals his stepfather is manipulating Martha into granting him her land.
When a group of planters and capitalisters come to the town with the intention to exploit mountain coal lands, Mavis scares them away with her gun.
She and Jason later run into the rich aristocrat Gray Pendleton ([[John Gilbert  and his sweetheart Marjorie Lee , who are looking for the town.
Back at home, Mavis is disappointed Steve is still there.
Later that night, Mavis visits a party and meets Gray for the second time.
He flirts with her, which makes Jason jealous.
Gray forces himself up to Mavis, which makes her upset and angry.
She leaves the party and finds out her mother has left her to marry Steve.
She decides to marry as well and proposes to Jason.
However, they soon find out they are too young.
When word hits town that a man named Morton Sanders  is planning to take over the city, some of the inhabitants, including Mavis, threaten him to go away.
Later that night, Morton is found dead and the police are looking after everyone who was involved.
The police visits the Hawn house, but Mavis' grandfather  forces them to go away.
While holding them under his gunshot, Mavis packs her stuff and goes hiding in the forest.
The next day, John Burnham visits her and convinces her to go to trial to proof her innocence.
In court, the lawyer of the other party demands for her to be hanged.
The town folks try to defend her by all admitting they have shot Morton.
Mavis is discharged and finally decides to go to school.
Mr. Burnham, Gray and Marjorie are all pleased with Mavis' decision.
Jason however, becomes jealous again when she starts hanging out with Gray at school and leaves her.
Six years pass.
Mavis has been adopted by the rich Colonel Pendleton .
One day she receives a letter from her mother, announcing she is getting old and will most-likely die soon.
She decides to visit her mom and finds out Steve killed her father.
He has become violent and takes it out on Martha.
Mavis tries to help her and shoots Steve.
Martha survives the incident and takes Mavis in to live with her.
Mavis is reunited with a grown-up Jason and they marry.James Cruze's white-haired Dr. Jekyll has secretly locked himself in his laboratory administering himself with a phial of formula.
He slumps into his chair with his head on his chest.
Slowly, as the drug takes effect, a dark-haired, taloned beast now appears in the chair.
After repeated use, Jekyll's evil alter ego emerges at will, causing Jekyll to murder his sweetheart's father.
The evil personality scuttles back to the laboratory only to discover that the antidote is finished and that he will be as Mr. Hyde forever.
A burly policeman breaks down Jekyll's door to find that the kindly doctor is dead after taking poison.Cheyenne Harry and some of his friends are mysteriously kidnapped and taken to a desert island, which turns out to be teeming with energetic native women.
Harry pursues the island's appealing princess, only to be pursued himself by the less-appealing queen.
In the end, the madcap hijinks are revealed to be dreams, the product of Harry's legendarily prodigious drinking.Lizette is an orphan girl who is known to be very innocent.
One day, the wealthy Henry Fauer adopts her after seeing her selling news papers.
She is now raised in his enormous mansion and is introduced to the posh life.
Lizette, however, doesn't know how to deal with it and has no idea about acting like a real society woman.
When Henry is out of town for business for a few months, Lizette finds a baby on her door step.
Henry returns and Lizette says it's her own.
Henry is shocked and realizes Lizette has no idea how babies are born.
Lizette thinks they are a gift from heaven and really thinks the baby is hers.
She is determined to raise the baby as her own and falls in love with a man.
Henry gives her permission to marry him.
Everything seems to be perfect, until the real mother of the baby shows up claiming the baby back.Plot summaryA pregnant wife  is deserted by her husband ([[Walter Miller  and must give birth alone.
After the baby is born, it dies.
Meanwhile, the woman who the husband has an affair with , abandons him for another man.
So the husband goes to look for the wife and finds her when the child is dying.
After the death of her child, the wife wanders into the garden and picks off the blossoms off of a rose bush in anger.
She comes back to her husband and realizes she loves him again.Two swindlers, Blackie Daw  and J. Rufus Wallingford , arrive in Battlesburg, Iowa, and con the local townsfolk that they are wealthy businessmen.
They use the town's money to establish plans for a factory to produce covered carpet tacks and set off a major real estate boom.
They are about to leave town with their money when they receive a genuine order for a large supply of tacks.
They decide to marry local girls and settle down in Battlesburg.
{{cite news}}Molly O  is a poor little girl whose mother died in childbirth and father David King  rejects her.
When David departs to Italy to paint his died wife as the Madonna, Molly O is left behind in a cruel orphanage.
She is beloved by the other pupils, but becomes enemies with the matron's niece Jennie .
As a result, she is shipped off to live with a boardinghouse proprietress .
She is treated more like a slave than as an adopted daughter and decides to run away.
Meanwhile, King returned from Italy and is now a wealthy and successful painter.
He regrets having left behind his daughter and now longs for her presence.
Jennie pretends to be Molly O to make profit of his wealth and is adopted by him.
However, Molly O returns as well.
Afraid to tell the truth, she serves as his maid.A young man  goes out to eat breakfeast with his friend .
As a restaurant "regular" with a pistol threatens to eat everyone's bacon, the two friends flee.Susie Louise Fazenda turns down Lee's  offer of love to become an actress.
The director of a film team engages Susie after losing his leading lady, but chaos ensues.
Susie is forced to accept Lee's love and give up acting forever.Chaplin plays a drunkard who checks into a health spa to dry out, but brings along a big suitcase full of alcohol.
Along the way he aggravates a large man suffering from gout, evades him and encounters a beautiful young woman who encourages him to stop drinking.
However, when the hotel owner learns his employees are getting drunk off Charlie's liquor, he calls an employee and orders him to have the liquor thrown out the window.
The drunk employee hurls the bottles through the window, straight into the spa's health waters.
The well becomes spurious with alcohol, sending the spa's inhabitants into a dancing stupor.
Chaplin, encouraged by his new love to get sober, drinks from the spurious spa, gets drunk and offends her.
She leaves him in anger and walks away.
Charlie walks back to the door unsteadily, when he bumps into the large man, tripping him off his wheel chair and landing him into the alcoholic well.
The next morning there are plenty of hangovers, but Chaplin turns sober, walks out and finds the lady.
Realizing what had happened, she forgives him.
They walk ahead, just then he accidentally steps into the liquor-laden well.Edith Hardy  steals charity money in order to invest it in stocks.
When she loses the money, she turns to a wealthy Burmese man  for a loan.
He gives it to her, but when she later attempts to return it, he says the repayment he wants is her.
When she resists, he brands her and declares her his property.
Edith shoots him.
Her husband Richard  takes the blame for the crime.The story involves Arbuckle as a farm boy marrying his sweetheart, Normand.
They have their honeymoon with Fatty's dog Luke, at a cottage on the seashore.
At high tide that night, Al St. John  and his confederates set the cottage adrift.
Fatty and Mabel awaken the next morning to find themselves surrounded by water in their bedroom, and the house afloat.A cult of Hindu Tiger Worshippers and a gang of Western outlaws outlaws attempt to cheat Belle Boyd out of the valuable mine that she has inherited from her father.Charlie, competing with his rival's race car, offers Mabel a ride on his motorcycle but drops her in a puddle.
He also kidnaps his rival before the race.
But Mabel decides to take the wheels in his place, thus causing a threat to Charlie.
As the race progresses, despite a very late start, Mabel manages to gain a lead of three laps.
Charlie with his henchmen, tries to sabotage the race by using oil and bombs on the track.
They seem to succeed for a while, but their dirty tricks were not enough to stop the high-spirited Mabel from winning the race.In China, a half-Chinese, half white woman falls in love with a missionary's son.
When he rejects her for an American girl, she joins the Boxers in order to avenge herself on the white race.Synopsis based on {{cite web}}Cinderella is a winsome young girl who lives with her wicked stepmother and ugly stepsisters.
They abuse her and use her as the house maid.
Cinderella thinks she's all alone in the world, but doesn't know a fairy godmother is constantly helping her.
One day, she is collecting wood from the forest and meets Prince Charming.
They immediately fall in love with each other, but lose contact.
Soon, a ball is arranged by the prince to look for his future wife.
The stepsisters think they make a great chance in being chosen by the prince.
Cinderella wants to go as well, but isn't allowed to by her cruel family.
The sisters go to a fortune teller, who announces a member of the family will be chosen by the prince.
The sisters are delighted and think it will be one of the two of them.
When they leave for the ball, Cinderella is left behind.
The fairy godmother appears and asks if she wants to go to the ball as well.
When Cinderella responds positively, the fairy godmother orders her to bring her the biggest pumpkin she can find.
Cinderella does so and the fairy godmother changes it into a luxurious stage coach.
She next asks for the smallest mice she can find.
Cinderella brings her some mice from the house and the fairy godmother changes them into horses.
The fairy godmother next orders her to bring her the biggest rats there are.
After Cinderella collected them, the fairy godmother changes them into servants.
She finally changes Cinderella's poor maiden costume into a dress fit for a princess, and glass slippers, of course.
She reminds Cinderella she will have to be back at home before the clock strikes midnight.
Otherwise, her fine dress will turn into rags and the coach and servants will become what they were before.
As Cinderella arrives at the party, Prince Charming is already busy looking for his future wife.
It is soon announced an unknown lady has arrived in a coach.
Prince Charming immediately chooses her and they go to a private place where they learn to know each other.
As they flirt, Cinderella notices it is almost twelve o'clock and storms out.
She loses her glass slipper, before she turns into her old poor self again.
The next day, the royal heralds announce the Prince's wish to marry the woman whose foot fits the lost glass slipper.
The sisters go to the palace to try fit their feet into the slippers, while Cinderella is yet again forced to stay home.
It becomes clear the royal heralds every woman of the town has tried but failed to wear the slippers, except for Cinderella.
Prince Charming immediately goes to visit her and is shocked when he finds out she is a poor maid.
He doesn't turn his back against her, though, and he invites her to try on the slipper.
When she does, she is announced as the future princess.
The royal heralds give her the opportunity to behead her sisters, but she refuses to.
In the final scene, the fairy godmother appears and blesses her.
Cinderella and Prince Charming live happily ever after.Benton Cabot is a man who was born and raised in the city.
When he inherits a mountain farm, he soon finds out he is unable to keep an entire farm on himself.
Instead, he accepts a job at the neighbour farm from Bije and Si.
Bije is in love with the young Emmy and thinks of Benton as a competitor.
He humiliates Benton several times in public, which results in Emmy sympathizing him.When a settler in the Dakotas gets word that he is to inherit a large fortune, his Native American wife is upset.
Believing that she will lose her husband if he returns east, she stabs herself with a knife.
Her husband finds her and removes the knife, only to have their daughter see him with the knife in his hand and her dead mother.Snow Leopard Plot summaryMoving Picture World offered this plot summary:Moving Picture World, April 20, 1918, reprinted in James R. Mock and Cedric Larson, Words that Won the War: The Story of the Committee on Public Information, 1917-1919 , 151-2 :Macas, a mighty man, is a blacksmith in Louvain, while in the palace in Berlin lives the Kaiser.
A captain of the guard, chided for the appearance of his men, in anger knocks the Kaiser down and then commits suicide.
The Kaiser soon after starts the world war.
Louvain is invaded; the blacksmith, though wounded, saves his daughter from a German soldier.
Later, the Lusitania is sunk.
The commander of the submarine is decorated and then goes mad.
In an interview with Ambassador Girard the Kaiser says he will stand no nonsense from America after the war.
Then follow further incidents and happenings leading up to the declaration of war by the United States, and Gerard secures his passports.
Scenes of America's military and naval preparations are shown; then the scene shifts to the close of the war.
The principal allied generals are gathered in the palace in Berlin, the Kaiser is a captive and is turned over to the King of Belgium, who appoints the blacksmith as his jailer.Jozef  is a young farmer who has been ordered to leave his mother  and childhood sweetheart Mareike , in order to join the army during the Great War.
Carmen  is a fatally attractive coquette living in the poor quarters, and working in a cigarette factory.
One day, she plays a practical joke on one of her co-workers.
The girl can't appreciate this and starts a fight; to which Carmen responds by stabbing her with a knife.
Stationed in the factory, Jozef is ordered to hold Carmen.
While being guarded, Carmen successfully seduces Jozef and convinces him to undo her from her handcuffs: "For Carmen's heart was fickle.
Her passions wild and bold.
Proud of every conquest.
And fond of foolish gold."
She gratefully thanks him and then escapes through the window.
While she joins her confederates - a group of bandits - Jozef feels guilty not for having released her, but for having fallen in love with her.
He is arrested for having helped a fugitive, and is imprisoned.
One day, Jozef receives a letter from Carmen: "Come to me Jozef, and I shall show you the way to freedom, where none shall be afraid of their past – no loss or trouble to either of us again."
He is able to distract his guards and flees to the bar where Carmen is staying.
He feels guilty for kissing her, but then starts a fight with another man who seduces her.
Afterward, the guards arrive at the bar to search for Jozef, and he is convinced by Carmen to join her as a fugitive.
They become part of an organised crime, which includes Carmen entertaining a group of soldiers, while the other men, among them Jozef, get the stuff over the border.
Meanwhile, Mareike has left her home to search for Jozef on the cold streets.
She is satisfied to find him, but Jozef orders her to leave.
He then returns to Carmen, and demands that she will never love another man.
Carmen, aware that she can't live up to Jozef's expectations, finds refuge in a bar.
Jozef follows her and blames her for having ruined his life.
He then leaves, as he realizes that his love for Carmen is gone.
The same night, Carmen falls for Dalboni , a celebrated baritone.
She seduces him, and he in turn is impressed with her.
Several nights later, Dalboni reads from The Bohemian Girl.
Carmen, realizing that she has fallen in love with Dalboni, writes to Jozef that she no longer can see him.
A year later, she is a happily married woman living in extreme wealth, while Jozef wanders through the streets.
At the premiere of an opera, Dalboni is praised by the audience, and he calls Carmen his inspiration.
"But the shadow returned again.
The man forsaken came out of her past."
Jozef finds Carmen backstage and confronts her with all that she has caused in his life.
When he asks her if she still loves him, she responds by describing her love for Dalboni: "He is everything to me.
Now, at last, I know what real love is.
I shall live for him alone."
In a rage, Jozef condemns Carmen and stabs her to death.The film follows the story of Midge O'Hara, a young woman living in the country, who leaves her home in order to perform on Broadway.
She able to get hired as a chorus girl, and, at her new job, meets Cherry Blow, a party girl and gold digger.
Cherry dates one man, staying with him until his cash runs out, upon which she leaves for someone else wealthy.
One of these men is Jack Chalvey, whom Cherry had dated until his expenses from buying her so many things left him in debt.
After meeting Midge, Jack, who has become depressed and almost commits suicide, reforms his life and also begins to have interest in her.
However, Midge's own life becomes more complicated when her boyfriend from the country, Elmer Watkins, comes to propose to her.
To make matters worse, the rich Henry Rockwell begins chasing after her.http://www.lonchaney.org/filmography/101.htmlHoping to improve his financial lot, petty thief Hawk Chovinski hires a dancing instructor to teach him how to bear himself like a gentleman.
His lessons completed, Hawk then poses as a European nobleman, intending to trap a wealthy wife.
Yolande Cowles sees through Hawk's pose but falls in love with him anyway.Don Jose, an officer of the law, is seduced by the gypsy girl Carmen, in order to facilitate her clan's smuggling endeavors.
Don Jose becomes obsessed, turning to violent crime himself in order to keep the attentions of Carmen.The plot is, on the whole, close to Gogol's classic tale.
The action is set in a Cossack stanitsa.
On Christmas Eve, a minor demon arrives to a local witch called Solokha.
They both ride on the witch's broom, after which the demon steals the Moon and hides in an old rag.
In the ensuing darkness, some inebriated Cossacks can't find their way to a shinok  and decide to go home.
One by one, they each come to visit Soloha, who hides each one  in bags so that none of them see each other.
At the same time, Solokha's son Vakula the Metalsmith , tries to woo the beauty Oksana , but she laughs at him and demands that he find her the shoes which the Tsarina wears.
Vakula goes to Soloha in sadness, but upon coming there sees the bags and decides to take them to the forge.
Getting tired along the way, he leaves the heaviest bags on the street, which are picked up by a caroling company.
Vakula, who is left only with the bag containing the demon, goes to Patsyuk, a sorcerer, to ask him how to find a demon - only with the help of a demon can he hope to get Tsarina's shoes.
The Patsyuk answers that a person should not search for a demon if he has a demon behind his back.
Vakula takes it as some kind of a murky wise say, but indeed eventually finds the demon in the bag and forces him to take him to St. Petersburg.
There, Prince Potemkin takes him for an ambassador of the Zaporozhian Cossacks and gives him Tsarina's shoes.
The demon takes Vakula home and Vakula lets him go.
Oksana agrees to marry Vakula.Charlie goes to the movie and falls in love with a girl on the screen.
He goes to Keystone Studios to find her.
He disrupts the shooting of a film, and a fire breaks out.
Charlie is blamed, gets squirted with a firehose, and is shoved by the female star.Following the "Birth of the Human Race" section of the film, two brothers in a German-American family go to war in Europe, one  fighting for the United States, and the other  fighting for Germany.
George is wounded, and at the hospital defends it from a German attack, killing Oscar in the process.
George is sent home to America, where he rescues his wife from a German spy.Mabel and her beau go to an auto race and are joined by Charlie and his friend.
As Charlie's friend is attempting to enter the raceway through a hole, the friend gets stuck and a policeman shows up.Charity takes her little brother and hides in an abandoned mansion.
Burglar Lucius Garrett accompanies them and they all decide to restore the place.
Suddenly, the son of the owner, Merlin Durand turns up.
He falls in love with Charity and they soon marry.The New York Times Review summaryThe film begins by tracing Poe's ancestral heritage before Poe himself is born.
After the loss of his parents, Poe is taken in by the John and Francis Allan in Richmond, Virginia.
The film then jumps ahead about 15 years to Poe's time at the University of Virginia.
Due to debts from playing cards and a growing interest in wine, Poe begins to have difficulties.
He hallucinates that he has killed a man in a pistol duel.
Poe meets Virginia and they spend a day together, riding a horse and sitting "beside the glassy pool of romance."
He tells her a fairy tale, a raven perching on Poe's shoulder as he finishes the story, before they go on a walk together.
Upon seeing a black slave  being whipped, he buys the slave with an "I.O.U."
for $600.00.
The slave's former owner then goes to John Allan to collect the debt.
Allan calls Poe a "scoundrel" for causing so many bills.
After having a drink with his "chum" Tony, Poe goes to visit Virginia.
Tony follows shortly after and the two compete for Virginia's affection.
Later, Virginia says she will choose the man who guesses which hand holds a wreath behind her back.
Poe allows Tony to go first and, though he guesses correctly, Virginia secretly switches the wreath to the other hand so that Poe can win.
Shortly after, in front of Tony and Virginia, Allan questions Poe's spending habits.
Allan causes quite a scene, despite his wife's attempts to calm him.
Poe is asked to leave the Allan family but Virginia offers to come along.
Poe's recently-purchased slave comes along as well.
Poe has an alcohol-induced hallucination that recreates his poem  "The Raven".
As Poe sits alone, he hears a tapping at the chamber door.
The door knocker moves on its own and Poe thinks he sees the outline of a large, black bird.
As Poe stumbles outside, the word "wine" appearing on a rock he braces himself against, he sees a ghost.
As he reaches for another sip of wine, a human skull appears in place of the glass.
Finally, a raven makes its way into the room, repeating the word "Nevermore" as Poe attempts to talk to it.
Poe, in Fordham, New York, is in "dire poverty" along with Virginia and her mother Maria.
Virginia has a terrible coughing fit, a sign of her tuberculosis.
Poe, desperate for money, unsuccessfully attempts to sell some of his work to George Rex Graham.
Virginia, bothered by the cold winter weather, is kept warm by Poe's old coat from his time at West Point and from their pet black cat.
She dies the next day, causing Poe great grief.
Sarah Helen Whitman is introduced at the end of the film, assisting an elderly couple.
She and Poe, however, do not cross paths.
John Howard Payne leaves home and begins a career in the theater.
Despite encouragement from his mother and girlfriend, Payne begins to lead a life of disrepair soon leading to ruin and depression.
In deep despair, he thinks of better days, and writes a song, Home!
Sweet Home!
that later provides inspiration to several others in their own times of need.Frank Merrill, a Great Lakes pilot, loses his life in a storm and his wife, Edith, to support her child leaves for the city where she steals and is imprisoned.
Three years later, upon her release, she takes her child from the state orphanage and goes to another city where she secures employment in a department store.
She marries the superintendent, Jim Roberts.
Mabel, who served time with Edith, is freed and arranges with Mickey Bill to enlist the aid of Edith in a robbery under threat of exposure.
The burglary is committed, and when Mabel is trapped Edith, rearing a revelation of her past, says that she is responsible.
In a trap laid by Detective Jordan to get Mabel the truth comes out and Ediths past is laid bare to her husband.
He forgives her and the thieves are rounded up.Olga Petrova plays Elaine Elton, a famous actress who is engaged to a powerful producer.
She meets a millionaire, who poses as a chauffeur to conquer her because he knows she dislikes rich men.
She falls in love with him but cannot accept his proposal of marriage because of her engagement to the producer.Engineer Jim Bludso and his sidekick, Banty Tim, return to Gilgal, Illinois after the end of the American Civil War.
Upon arrival, they discover that Jim's wife, Gabrielle, has left him for another man and abandoned their son.
Kate Taggart, the daughter of a storekeeper in town, takes pity on Jim and they develop a fondness for one another.
Gabrielle, now dumped, returns and Jim forgives her and resumes their married life.
Meanwhile, a flood is coming, and Ben Merrill&mdash;constructor of Gilgal's levee&mdash;knows the structure won't hold against the tide, so he willfully causes it to fail and plans to blame the resulting catastrophe on Jim and Banty Tim.
Gabrielle is mortally wounded in the flood, and her dying words implicate Merrill and identify him as the man who wooed her away from her family.
Jim is on board the boat Prairie Bell when this news reaches him, as is Merrill; they get into a fight, and Prairie Bell bursts into flames and explodes.
Jim is rescued and returns to Gilgal to marry Kate.This early Chaplin film has him playing a character quite different from the Tramp for which he would become famous.
He is a rich, upper-class gentleman whose romance is endangered when his girlfriend oversees him being embraced by a maid.
Chaplin's romantic interest in this film, Minta Durfee, was the wife of fellow Keystone actor, Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle.As the story begins, the Little Tramp is sleeping rough outside a mission near the streets of a lawless slum.
He is reformed somewhat at a Mission where there is singing and religious education.
His religious awakening inspired by a beautiful young woman who pleads for him to stay at the Mission.
Spotting a help wanted ad for a job at the police station, Chaplin hesitantly accepts and is assigned the rough-and-tumble Easy Street as his beat.
Upon entering the street, he finds a bully, roughing up the locals and pilfering their money.
Chaplin gets on the wrong side of this bully and following a chase the two eventually come to blows, culminating in Chaplin inventively using a gas lamp, to render the bully unconscious.
The film continues with Chaplin aiding the people of Easy Street, rescuing a damsel in distress from the clutches of a sinister drug addict and putting the bully in his place once and for all.John Walton, a district attorney, is presented with an obscenity case: A medical practitioner has been arrested for distributing 'indecent' birth control literature.
On the stand, he makes a case for his thesis that breeding and financial planning are integral to raising healthy and happy families, and that sex education and contraception information should be available to prospective parents.
Meanwhile, Walton's wife has been keeping a secret from him for many years: She has been seeing a doctor, one Herman Malfit, who performs abortions so that her busy social life will not be interrupted by the inconvenience of pregnancy.
She suggests it as an option for her friend Mrs. William Carlo, who is with child.
Mrs Carlo has the abortion.
The Waltons receive two new guests in their house almost simultaneously: Mrs. Walton's ne'er-do-well younger brother, and the maid's young daughter.
Smitten by the brother's advances, the maid's daughter is seduced and soon finds herself in trouble.
She is taken to Dr. Malfit and then abandoned by the boy after the operation goes wrong.
Making her way back to the Walton mansion, she collapses and dies from the botched abortion.
Following Malfit's arrest and trial, Walton examines the doctor's ledgers and realized that his wife and many of her friends are listed as having received 'personal services.'
He returns home, furious, to find them lunching at his home.
He banishes his wife's friends, saying 'I should bring you to trial for manslaughter!'
and confronts his wife, who is overcome with remorse.
As the years pass, the couple must contend with a lonely, childless life, full of longing for the family they might have had.The story of the bushranger Ben Hall, including his duel with Melville, last stand and death.
A contemporary review said that "unlike the usual bushranging films, instead of glorifying the villainy of the criminals of the bush, recorded a triumph of the law over the lawless.
"{{cite news}}Mollie Goodhue leads a cheerless, impoverished life, largely because of her stern, miserly father.
Mrs. Goodhue is mortally ill, but before dying, she gives the minister, Preacher Bolton, some money with which to buy her daughter the "finery" her father has always forbade her.
Mollie is delighted when the minister presents her with a fashionable New York hat she has been longing for, but village gossips misinterpret the minister's intentions and spread malicious rumors.
Mollie becomes a social pariah, and her father tears up the beloved hat in a rage.
All ends well, however, after the minister produces a letter from Mollie's mother about the money she left the minister to spend on Mollie.
Soon afterwards, he proposes to Mollie, who accepts his offer of marriage.In the early 1870s, a New Zealand army officer, Captain George Scott, is caught cheating at cards and brutally beats a fellow officer.
Disgraced and discharged, he joins the clergy and falls in love with the beautiful Ruth Clarke, whose brother has embezzled a large amount of money and is going to be arrested.
For her sake he robs the Edgerton Bank, and arranges to leave by boat to England.
The police arrive as he gets on the boat the Lady Isabelle and although he attempts to swim away he is wounded and arrested.
Constables Ryan and Mae have their first case.
Scott later escapes from gaol by strangling a warden and releasing another prisoner.
He becomes a bushranger under the name of "Moonlite", forming a gang which includes Ruth's brother.
He saves an aboriginal "gin" called Bunda Bunda from downing, then goes on to rob the gold escort, distributing some of this money to the poor.
Moonlite and his gang go on to stick up a country pub and the police send Inspector Carroll and his men after him.
Moonlite's gang hold up Wantabadgery Station, and Carroll gives chase but they are fought off and Bunda Bunda saves Moonlite's life.
{{cite news}} Ryan and Mac make a capture, and Bunda Bunda shoots the tracker after Moonlite.
Eventually Moonlite is captured at McCreedy's farm after a shoot out by Inspector Carroll in which Bunda Bunda is killed.
He is taken away to gaol for the last time to be executed.
All Ruth is left with is his cross.
{{cite news}}{{cite news}}Charlie gets drunk in the bar.
He steps outside, meets a pretty woman, tries to flirt with her, only to retreat after the woman's father returns.
Returning to the bar, Charlie drinks some more and engages in rogue behaviors with others.
He finally leaves the bar, sees the woman leaving, follows the woman home, and proceeds to make a nuisance of himself, eventually getting kicked out of the house.The film takes place in the mining town of Red Gulch in the High Sierra.
M'Liss  is one of the inhabitants whose father 'Bummer'  lost his fortune in the gold mines.
Now his only investment, which pays a dividend, is his chicken Hildegarde.
M'Liss regards herself as a crook and robs Yuba Bill's stage coach.
Yuba, however, is fascinated by the young lady and doesn't mind.
M'Liss is the only person in 'Bummer's life, since his brother Jonathan, a wealthy pioneer, lives in San Francisco.
One day, Jonathan turns his face toward the Sunset Trail.
Clara Peterson  has been his nurse for over three years and her brother Jim  finds out they will receive $500 each for their services after his death.
He is outraged they will get only that small amount of money.
Charles Gray  is the school teacher who wants M'Liss to go to school as well.
M'Liss isn't interested in an education.
Charles keeps on pursuing her and she finally decides to go.
He demands her to mind her manners when she's at school.
She talks back to the boards members and is expelled.
Charles, however, is charmed by the brave young girl.
That same day, 'Bummer' gets stabbed in the back by an unknown person.
The sheriff suspects Charles, since he was the last person to visit 'Bummer'.
When M'Liss is informed, she is crushed.
She is invited to visit the murderer in jail and is shocked to find out it's Charles.
Three weeks later, a murder trial starts.
M'Liss is the only one believing in Charles' innocence.
His wife Clara reaches town to visit him, only to find out he died.
M'Liss refuses to believe she is her mother.
Finally, Charles is sent to jail for 60 years.
M'Liss helps him escape, but the police follow him.
M'Liss witnesses them shooting Charles, but doesn't know they went after the wrong guy and actually shot Jim.
Jim and Mexican Joe, the help of the sheriff, admit they killed 'Bummer' for his will.
The fortune is now send to M'Liss and a hidden Charles is set free and reunites with M'Liss.Charlie  takes a job as a janitor in the home of Colonel Nutt , a munitions manufacturer.
As the butler  introduces Charlie to the ill-tempered cook , Colonel Nutt demonstrates his new wireless explosive device to his daughter .
Meanwhile, agents of the Pretzelstrass meet with the Count  to devise a plan to get at Colonel Nutt's device.
Charlie carelessly dumps garbage all over the maid  and her newly clean floor.
He takes the trash can and dumps it over the fence, inundating the Count in the process.
Back in the kitchen, the maid scolds Charlie, but then becomes emotional, and he comforts her.
The Count enters the house, and is hit by a wet rag thrown by the maid, intended for Charlie.
The Count tosses it off to the side, and it winds up hitting the cook also, and when the cook begins to act cruelly towards the maid in return, Charlie sticks up for her.
The Count makes his way to the Colonel, who rejects his offers and has the Count ejected by way of the butler.
His day's work done, Charlie makes his way to a flophouse for a night's sleep.
At this point, a pickpocket  holds up the Count, but instead of taking his money he agrees to join the caper to liberate Dr. Nutt of his invention.
The conversation is overheard by a cop, who then runs off to inform his fellow officers; they are in an abandoned lot, shooting craps.
They storm the Nutt house, and highly disrupt its resident, but explain to him that they "are on the trail of a great robbery."
Back at the flophouse, Charlie is prevented from settling down by a loud, singing drunk  whom he eventually—and somewhat affectionately—dispatches with a champagne bottle.
A thief  steals in during the night and robs the singing drunk, and although Charlie takes what he thinks are adequate precautions, he is robbed also.
Charlie disguises himself under the blankets and manages to get his money back from the thief, but when the thief tries to stab him it wakes everyone up and a fight breaks among all of the men.
Charlie manages to escape, dodging several cops on the way.
However, he runs into the pickpocket on the street; recognizing him as an old friend, Charlie agrees to help him find a mark, and leads him to the Nutt house.
The cops are all still there; lying around, smoking, waiting for something to happen.
Pandemonium breaks out when the pickpocket enters the house, and amid the chaos, Colonel Nutt's explosive device is detonated, blowing all of the cops skyward.
In the aftermath, the pickpocket is buried in a heap of rubble and Charlie is seen poking his head out of the kitchen stove.http://www.archive.org/details/CC_1918_xx_xx_TripleTrouble A shipowner intends to scuttle his ship on its last voyage to get the insurance money.
Charlie, a tramp in love with the owner's daughter, is grabbed by the captain and promises to help him shanghai some seamen.
The daughter stows away to follow Charlie.
Charlie assists in the galley and attempts to serve food during a gale.A young girl suddenly finds herself wealthy, but lacking in social graces.
She calls upon the disinherited son from a wealthy family for help.After they are caught stealing food, the sheriff  sentences Plump  and Runt  to spend the night in a haunted house.
They are not alone, though, as the house is actually a hideout for a gang of counterfeiters.A Navajo woman becomes a witch after erroneously coming to believe that her husband has abandoned her.
She teaches the same skills to her daughter Watuma, who transforms into a wolf in order to carry out vengeance against the invading white settlers.
Then, 100 years after Watuma's death, she returns from the dead to kill again.Two farm sisters  are feeling romantic and looking for suitors.
Mary consults a gypsy who gives her a fortune that promotes his intentions to seduce her.
Mary is shocked when she finds the same gypsy courting her sister next to a waterfall.
The menfolk chase the two-timing gypsy out of town, and the girls – flirtatious as ever – decide to make do with two local boys.
The whole film is shot in just a few setups on one rural location.
The title cards do not record dialogues but summarize scenes for the viewer – e.g., "Martha discovers the gypsy’s perfidy", "A cowardly attack", "The old man unhurt but the gypsy man is warned to leave the neighborhood".
The copy sold in the Milestone Collection is in good condition with good brightness, contrast and sharpness.A philandering husband's public flirtation with a beautiful girl -- and the resulting brawl with the woman's boyfriend -- are captured by a newsreel cameraman.
When the husband takes his wife and her mother out to the movies, the footage is shown on-screen.
The husband tries to flee the theater, only to be spotted and leaped on by the woman's boyfriend, treating views to two simultaneous fights between the same two men, both on-screen and in the aisle.Chaplin plays an assistant in a pawnshop run by Bergman.
He engages in a slapstick battles with his fellow pawnshop assistant, deals with eccentric customers, and flirts with the pawnbroker's daughter.
One customer, posing as a jewelry buyer, pulls a gun and tries to rob the place.
Chaplin disarms him.From The Edison Kinetogram: Frankenstein, a young student, is seen bidding his sweetheart and father goodbye, as he is leaving home to enter a college in order to study the sciences.
Shortly after his arrival at college he becomes absorbed in the mysteries of life and death to the extent of forgetting practically everything else.
His great ambition is to create a human being, and finally one night his dream is realized.
He is convinced that he has found a way to create a most perfect human being that the world has ever seen.
We see his experiment commence and the development of it in a vat of chemicals from a skeletal being.
To Frankenstein's horror, instead of creating a marvel of physical beauty and grace, there is unfolded before his eyes and before the audience an awful, ghastly, abhorrent monster.
As he realizes what he has done Frankenstein rushes from the room as the monster moves through the doors Frankenstein has placed before the vat.
The misshapen monster peers at Frankenstein through the curtains of his bed.
He falls fainting to the floor, where he is found by his servant, who revives him.
After a few weeks' illness, he returns home, a broken, weary man, but under the loving care of father and sweetheart he regains his health and strength and begins to take a less morbid view of life.
The film's story emphasizes that the creation of the monster was possible only because Frankenstein had allowed his normal mind to be overcome by evil and unnatural thoughts.
His marriage is soon to take place.
But one evening, while sitting in his library, he chances to glance in the mirror before him and sees the reflection of the monster which has just opened the door of his room.
All the terror of the past comes over him and, fearing lest his sweetheart should learn the truth, he bids the monster conceal himself behind the curtain while he hurriedly induces his sweetheart, who then comes in, to stay only a moment.
The monster, who is following his creator with the devotion of a dog, is insanely jealous of anyone else.
He snatches from Frankenstein's coat the rose which his sweetheart has given him, and in the struggle throws Frankenstein to the floor, here the monster looks up and for the first time confronts his own reflection in the mirror.
Appalled and horrified at his own image he flees in terror from the room.
Not being able, however to live apart from his creator, he again comes to the house on the wedding night and, searching for the cause of his jealousy, goes into the bride's room.
Frankenstein coming into the main room hears a shriek of terror, which is followed a moment after by his bride rushing in and falling in a faint at his feet.
The monster then enters and after overpowering Frankenstein's feeble efforts by a slight exercise of his gigantic strength leaves the house.
When Frankenstein's love for his bride shall have attained full strength and freedom from impurity it will have such an effect upon his mind that the monster cannot exist.
The monster, broken down by his unsuccessful attempts to be with his creator, enters the room, stands before a large mirror and holds out his arms entreatingly.
Gradually, the real monster fades away, leaving only the image in the mirror.
A moment later Frankenstein himself enters.
As he stands directly before the mirror he sees the image of the monster reflected instead of his own.
Gradually, however, under the effect of love and his better nature, the monster's image fades and Frankenstein sees himself in his young manhood in the mirror.
His bride joins him, and the film ends with their embrace, Frankenstein's mind now being relieved of the awful horror and weight it has been laboring under for so long.Nina  and Jack Graham  are both marooned on a deserted island.
They fall in love and eventually Nina gives birth to a child.
Despite being stranded, they are very happy together.
One day, Jack's wife comes to rescue him.
Nina is crushed and throws herself in a volcano.Charlie is released from prison and immediately swindled by a fake person.
A fellow ex-convict convinces Charlie to help burglarize a house.Two men who work as both automobile mechanics and firemen operate a garage in a fire station.
A car has been left for them to clean, but they destroy it instead.
In the second half of the film, Roscoe and Keaton have been called to a fire, but it turns out to be a false alarm.
When they return, they find their own fire station on fire.
The film is available on DVD, as part of the "Arbuckle and Keaton Collection".Set in 17th century Massachusetts, it is the classic story of a young woman, Hester Prynne , who is forced by her Puritan community to wear a scarlet "A"  because she had a daughter by another man while her husband was away.The story involves Arbuckle working as the butcher boy in a country store.
He falls in love with the cashier, who is the daughter of the store owner.
He follows her, disguised as a female cousin, to an all-girl boarding school.The film begins aboard a steamer crossing the Atlantic Ocean, and initially showcases the misadventures of an unnamed immigrant, the Tramp  who finds himself in assorted mischief while, among other things, playing cards, eating in a mess hall, and avoiding seasick passengers.
Along the way, he befriends another unnamed immigrant  who is traveling to America with her ailing mother.
The two are robbed by a pickpocket who is losing in gambling.
The Tramp, feeling sorry for the two penniless women, attempts to secretly place his winnings from his card game in the woman's pocket, but ends up being mistakenly accused of being a pickpocket.
The woman manages to clear the Tramp's name.
Upon arrival in America, the Tramp and the woman part company.
Later, hungry and broke, the tramp finds a coin on the street outside a restaurant and pockets it.
He doesn't realize there is a hole in his pocket and the coin has fallen straight through and is back on the ground.
He enters the restaurant, where he orders a plate of beans.
There, he is reunited with the woman and discovers her mother is dead.
The Tramp orders a meal for her.
As they eat, they watch the restaurant's burly head waiter  and other waiters attack and forcibly eject a patron who is short 10 cents in paying his bill.
The Tramp, intimidated by the waiter, checks and now realizes he has lost his coin.
Terrified of facing the same treatment as the man he saw thrown out, the Tramp begins planning how he will fight the huge man.
Soon, however, he finds the same coin fallen from the head waiter's pocket onto the floor and makes many failed attempts to retrieve it without notice.
He finally retrieves the coin and nonchalantly pays the waiter only to be thunderstruck when the waiter reveals the coin to be fake.
Once again, the Tramp prepares for the fight of his life.
Just then, a visiting artist spots the Tramp and the woman and offers them a job to pose for a painting.
The two agree.
The artist offers to pay for the Tramp and the woman's meal, but the Tramp declines the offer several times for reasons of etiquette, intending to eventually accept the artist's offer; however, he's dismayed when the artist does not renew his offer to pay at the last moment.
The artist pays for his own meal and leaves a tip for the waiter.
The Tramp notices that the tip is enough to cover the couple's meal and, without the artist noticing, palms the tip and presents it to the waiter as his own payment for his and the woman's meal.
As a final riposte, he lets the waiter keep the remaining change - one small coin - after paying his bill.
The waiter thinks the artist himself has given no tip whatsoever, and is clearly upset at this supposed action.
Afterwards, outside a marriage license office in the rain, the Tramp proposes marriage to the woman, who is coy and reluctant until the Tramp physically carries the laughing girl into the office.The film opens with flashbacks from Tarzan of the Apes to establish the back story.
The African expedition led by Professor Porter  to find Tarzan , the ape-raised heir of Lord Greystoke, has been crowned with success, and Tarzan and Porter's daughter Jane  are in love.
The party now prepares to return to civilization when it is attacked by natives and separated from the ape-man.
Tarzan's paternal cousin William Cecil Clayton ([[Colin Kenny , the current Lord Greystoke, desiring to keep his wealth and title, reports having seen the savages kill Tarzan.
Believing him dead, they leave without their charge.
But Tarzan has in fact survived, and is eager to be reunited with Jane.
Finding his new friends gone he swims out to another boat to follow.
Eventually he reaches the United States, and is landed near the Porters' San Francisco, California ranch.
Tarzan in civilization is like a bull in a china shop, as is demonstrated early in a destructive incident in a dance hall, where his prowess impresses La Belle Odine .
Things get back on track when Jane is kidnapped by outlaws, presenting him with the opportunity to rescue her.
Jane, however, is cold to him, as Clayton has falsely convinced her he is in love with the other woman.
Heartbroken, Tarzan swears off civilization and returns to Africa.
Belatedly learning the truth from Odine, Jane follows, and is happily reunited with her lover in the jungle.Cheyenne Harry stands up to the powerful criminal boss Dave Bland who dominates Paradise Creek Valley.
Attempting to save the sanctity of the vast open grazing lands, Harry also finds himself defending the honor of intimidated Molly Grant.
After her father is killed and Harry is captured by Bland's thugs, it is Molly who the saves the day in the end by bringing in the US cavalry.American film producer Rupert K. Thunder  hosted the film live.
The movie loosely follows the plot of the play, with comically melodramatic embellishments.The stories revolved around the inhabitants of the fictitious land of 'Bluffoonia' and their ongoing struggle against the evil tyrant 'Clandestino' and his plans to destroy the forest in which they live.Peggy Manners has just finished finishing school and returns home.
She has always thought her father was a great and wealthy store owner, but finds out he is a grocery store owner who isn't making any profit.
She tries to make a change and falls in love with the son of the wealthy Roland Gardiner.The New York Times Review summaryDora and her father are lost in the kitchen .
An ad for new one in the newspaper attracts two crooks .
He dresses like a woman to apply for the job.
At his first opportunity he plans to loot the house, but just then, a cop on the beat stops in for coffee.
Fritz locks the cop in the basement, picks up what things of value he can and escapes.
He and his pal drive off in a Model T. Along the way Dora is kidnapped, the Keystone Cops give chase and all ends well in the end.The hero, a janitor played by Chaplin, is fired from work for accidentally knocking his bucket of water out the window and onto his boss the chief banker .
Meanwhile, one of the junior managers  is being threatened with exposure by his bookie for gambling debts unpaid.
Thus the manager decides to steal from the company.
He is caught in the act of raiding the vault by the bank secretary  who rings the downstairs for help.
Chaplin comes to the rescue only to be misjudged by the Chief Banker as the thief.
The Secretary fingers the manager and Charlie receives a just reward and a handshake for foiling the robbery.Newspaper advertising for the film described it as a “Story of Love and Wall Street,” showing the “Baleful Power of Passion for Gold,” where “Mammon’s Golden Claw Parts Man and Wife.”<ref nameNewspaper Advertisement|publisher1916-03-02}} Bessie Barriscale played the role of Lillian Henry, “a beautiful young girl who enjoys all the tinsel and glitter of society life and is willing to marry simply for money and all the luxuries and pleasures that its possession will bring.” Frank Mills plays Bert Werden, “the young unspoiled man, who was determined to give his wife her fill of his continual search for the golden fleece.”{{cite news|titleJanesville Daily Gazette|dateSalt>{{cite news}}John Hare  loses his job after going to the races at work without permission.
Despite being married with a child he invests his last shilling in a Tattersall's sweep ticket and draws the favourite.
He interviews Dick Fallows , the owner of the favourite, and puts two-third of the sweep money with him.
The horse wins and after Hare secures the prize money he goes to the Fallows house to celebrate, where he meets Mrs Fallows , Fred Wynne  and some others.
Hare plays cards and gets drunk, falling asleep on the couch in the room.
A quarrel results between Fallows and Wynne; Fallows winds up killing Wynne with a knife, and then puts the knife in Hare's hand.
Hare wakes up, sees the knife and Wynne's corpse and thinks he might have done the murder.
Fallows confirms this was the case and suggest he tell his wife  and leave town.
Hare does this.
Mrs Fallows starts to follow her husband around town and discovers him with another woman.
Fallows knocks her down and is about to kill when stopped by the occupants by a passing tram.
Hare is tormented by dreams of his wife and child and decides to give himself up so he can see them again.
He is arrested by the injured Mrs Fallows, believing herself near death, confesses that Hare was innocent and her husband murdered Wynne.
Fallows is arrested while Hare is released, gets his old job back and returns to his family.
{{cite news}}{{cite news}}The movie consists of 25 scenes.
Frank Gardiner, real name Frank Christie , is a Goulburn boy accused of theft by his father, and ordered to quit.
He meets his future wife and starts bushranging.
His sweetheart's father throws her into the sea but Gardiner saves her.
After several adventures he winds up in gaol, where he has been sentenced to serve 32 years' hard labor.
After 10 years, however, he is released and he moves to America.In a hotel lobby a heavily drunk Charlie runs into an elegant lady, Mabel, gets tied up in her dog's leash, and falls down.
He later runs into her in the hotel corridor, locked out of her room.
They run through various rooms.
Mabel ends up in one of an elderly husband where she hides under the bed.
Enters the jealous wife, soon attacking Mabel, her husband, and Mabel's lover, not to mention the staggeringly drunken Tramp.Polly Biblett , a young lady, tells her grandmother Lettie about her new boyfriend.
The news provokes the elderly woman to reminisce about her own sweetheart, long time before.
The touching sequence gives off the truthful essence of lives going on, the woman aging as her children grow and have children of their own.Alicia is a poor girl living in the city with her family.
When her father receives an inheritance, he is able to follow his dream of becoming an artist and moves his family near an artist's colony in the country.
There he falls prey to a scheming widow, and he and his wife separate.
Alicia, meanwhile, has become involved with a young man who is the widow's accomplice, and she throws over her former suitor, Dr. John Osborne.
The young man is a proponent of free love, but he gets a little too free with Alicia and she beans him with a small statuette.
She goes running back to her doctor sweetheart, and her parents decide to reconcile, since their separation obviously isn't doing their children any good.Edgar English cons a journalist out of some money.
He applies for a job at his newspaper.
Whilst the journalist is helping a trapped motorist Edgar steals the camera with the picture of the accident and rushes back to the paper with it.
He steals the headlines.
A short pursuit with the police ensues.Mary Hamilton an heiress tires of fortune hunting men and takes her secretary Peggy to join a group of gypsies undercover.
As the women head into the woods Sir Kenneth one of Mary's close male friends follows them dressed as a gypsy.
Jack Hutton a wealthy landowner wants the gypsies off his land and has Sir Kenneth jailed.
Hutton then seeks out Mary's camp, not knowing her true identity, and wants her thrown off the land as well but then catches her swimming in a moonlit pond.
Hutton falls in love with Mary and Mary asks him to dine.
When Hutton leaves a band of gypsies attacks Mary's wagon and tie her up.
Jack then tries to rescue Mary but is beaten by the gypsies.
Sir Kenneth has by then been released from jail and arrives with Peggy, the two of them are now in love.
After they cut Mary loose, Sir Kenneth and Peggy head off to be married leaving Mary to care for Hutton.
As Hutton recuperates Mary tells him the truth that she is an heiress and not a gypsy as she had led Hutton to believe.
They are later married.American Film Institute Catalogue synopsis.
The poor in the film, as represented by the lazy gypsies who rob Mary, do not compare well to the heroic but naive members of the upper class.
{{Citation}} Chaplin portrays a womanizing city man who meets Tillie  in the country after a fight with his girlfriend .
When he sees that Tillie's father has a very large bankroll for his workers, he persuades her to elope with him.
In the city, he meets the woman he was seeing already, and tries to work around the complication to steal Tillie's money.
He gets Tillie drunk in a restaurant and asks her to let him hold the pocketbook.
Since she is drunk, she agrees, and he escapes with his old girlfriend and the money.
Later that day, they see a picture show entitled "A Thief's Fate," which illustrates their thievery in the form of a morality play.
They both feel guilty and leave the theatre.
While sitting on a park bench, a paperboy asks him to buy a newspaper.
He does so, and reads the story about Tillie's Uncle Banks, a millionaire who died while on a mountain-climbing expedition.
Tillie is named sole heir and inherits three million dollars.
The man leaves his girlfriend on the park bench and runs to the restaurant, where Tillie is now forced to work to support herself, as she is too embarrassed to go home.
He begs her to take him back and marries her.
Although she is skeptical at first, she believes that he truly loves her.
They move into the uncle's mansion and throw a big party, which ends horribly when Tillie finds her husband with his old girlfriend, smuggled into the house and working as one of their maids.
The uncle is found on a mountaintop, and didn't die after all.
He goes back to his mansion, which was in disarray after Tillie instigated a gunfight  which, luckily, didn't harm anyone.
Uncle Banks insists that Tillie be arrested for the damage she has caused to his house.
The three run from the cops all the way to a dock, where a car "bumps" Tillie into the water.
She flails about, hoping to be rescued.
She is eventually pulled to safety, and both Tillie and the man's girlfriend realize that they are too good for him.
He leaves, and the two girls become friends.Konrad, a poor miller's son, wants to marry Marie, a rich miller's daughter, but her widowed father is malicious and avaricious, and tricks the lovers in a despicable way.
The imminent demise of the miller and his innocent daughter is foreshadowed by the appearance of the bird of death and the graveyard ghost.Considered a coward by his fiancée and comrades in arms, a British army officer has to redeem himself.After discovering a conspiracy among his Scottish mercenaries, king Johan III orders them to leave the country and puts their commanders in jail.
Sir Archie, Sir Filip and Sir Donald, three of the imprisoned commanders, succeed to escape and flee to Marstrand, then under Danish rule, in hope of being able to return to Scotland.
Sir Arne of Solberga is introduced as a wealthy man who is said to be under a curse.
His treasure is said to have been looted from the monasteries during the Protestant reform, and according to premonitions it will one day be his doom.
While dining, Arne's wife has a premonition where three rogues are sharpening very long knives nearby, but is not taken seriously.
At night however, the three Scots enter the family's mansion, murders the family, steal Sir Arne's treasure chest and burn down the building.
The only survivor is the daughter Elsalill.
Elsalill is taken care of by a fisherman who lets her live with him in Marstrand, where also the Scottish officers have arrived and are waiting for the ice to break so they can sail away.
Eslalill encounters Sir Archie, and they both fall in love without recognising each other.
Eventually however, Elsalill happens to overhear a conversation between the Scots, and understands who they are.
She reports the criminals, but they are backed up by other former mercenaries who also are waiting for the first ship to leave, and the situation becomes violent.
Among the fighting, the emotionally shaken Elsalill seeks up Sir Archie who deeply regrets his crime, but in the ongoing turmoil, Elsalill is fatally wounded as guards try to arrest Sir Archie.
Sir Archie escapes to the frozen-in ship with Elsalill's dead body.
The ice still won't break however, and according to sailor's lore it is because there are evildoers on board.
The three officers are soon identified and thrown off the ship.
A long procession march over the ice to fetch Elsalill's body and bring it back to land.Made by Keystone Studios and directed by Henry Lehrman, in it Chaplin plays a spectator at a 'baby-cart race' in California.
The spectator keeps getting in the way of the camera and interferes with the race, causing great frustration to the public and participants.
The film was shot during the Junior Vanderbilt CupKids Auto Races at Venice, Cal.
at The Charlie Chaplin Encyclopedia, an actual race with Chaplin and his co-stars improvising gags in front of real-life spectators.
Unusually the camera "comes out of shot" to show a second camera filming , to better explain the joke.
At this stage Chaplin only gets in the way of the visible camera on screen, not the actual filming camera.
In so doing it takes on a spectator's viewpoint and becomes one of the first public films to show the film camera and cameraman in operation.The serial follows a secret society called "The Black Hundred" as they go on a trek in an attempt to obtain a lost one million dollars.As was typical of Abramson's potboilers, Sins of the Parents involves complicated and often contrived plot twists arising out of family relations of the primary characters.
Laura Henderson  is an orphan, raised by her aunt Mary Sherman.
Sherman runs a boarding house, and boarder Angelo Angelini  is the apple of Laura's eye.
They are engaged to be married, but Angelo claims he must leave for a concert tour--but in truth he returns to his wife and child in Italy, crushing Laura.
Laura gives birth an illegitimate child, Ruth, but is forced to abandon her and moves to New York, where she falls under the care of Reverend Henry Bradley.
Bradley and Laura later marry, and Laura keeps the existence of Ruth a secret from Bradley.
Shifting 19 years later, Bradley  and Laura now have a daughter  who is about to become engaged to the well-to-do Walter Jordan.
Meanwhile, Ruth, now 20 years old, who had believed Mary was her mother, finds out that her real mother is Laura and departs for New York to find her.
Meanwhile, Angelo is now living in New York under the name Angell with his son Tony, a general ne'er do well.
Tony befriends Ruth  under false pretenses, and plans to sell her into white slavery in New Orleans.
Ruth tries to escape him, and in the ensuing struggle Tony is shot dead just as Angelo enters the room.
Ruth is arrested, and meets Chaplain Bradley in prison, where she divulges her story.
Mary Sherman visits Ruth in prison, and then tells all to Laura.
Laura breaks down when she learns that her first child is in prison, just while she had been celebrating Aline's engagement to Walter.
This causes Aline, apparently out of learning of her mother's disgrace, to break off her engagement and commit suicide.
Moving to Ruth's murder trial, Angelo is about to testify as a witness to his son's murder just as Laura bursts into the courtroom and recognizes Angelo.
Learning that his own daughter killed his son, Angelo despairs and refuses to speak.
Laura is removed from the courtroom in hysterics.
The jury subsequently finds Ruth is not guilty by reason of self-defense and she is freed.
Bradley brings Ruth to their home, but Laura feels unworthy of his love and plans to leave with Ruth.
Bradley resigns as chaplain and insists that Laura stay.
Bradley's employer refuses his resignation due to his noble acts, and Laura begs forgiveness..
Feature Film Stories, The Moving Picture World, p. 1146Roze Kate is in love with a boy named Everhard.
However, Everhard's brothers Jacob and Simon are jealous of him.
When they discover their heritage will be lost when their mother dies, they decide to kill Roze Kate.The film takes place in a small, New England town in 1919, where a group of con men plan to use a faith healer to collect money.
In New York City's Chinatown, four crooks conspire to swindle a small, New England town.
The gang consists of Tom Burke , the head of the group; Rose, a con artist posing as a street walker; "The Dope" , who pretends to pimp Rose; and The Frog , a contortionist.
The plan is clear: in a small town outside of Boston there is a Patriarch  who has been healing people.
The group heads to the town and plans to use the Patriarch in a faith healing scheme.
When the townspeople gather to see the Patriarch heal the sick, the Frog is there, posing as a cripple.
As he crawls to the path of the man, his limbs become straightened and soon he walks, supposedly healed, to the Patriarch.
Unexpectedly, a crippled boy, his faith in the Patriarch overpowering him, loses his crutches and runs to the Patriarch.
The story spreads across the country , and people flock in from all over to visit the Patriarch and be healed.
When a millionaire, Richard King , brings his sister to be healed, he gives Burke $50,000 after the Patriarch cures her.
During this visit, King meets Rose, and the two fall in love.
Meanwhile, all is not well with Burke.
One by one, he sees his gang disbanding, unbeknownst to him, the healing power of the Patriarch at work.
The Dope gives up his drug addiction, The Frog gives up his life of crime and takes care of a widow left all alone, and Rose laments King's departure.
Burke becomes jealous, but when King returns to propose his marriage to Rose, she realises that she loves Burke.
The Patriarch dies, and the two lovers begin anew.Louise  is a sewing-machine girl in a sweatshop in New York City.
She lives together with her sisters Amy  and Jane ([[Dorothy West  and are all deprived by bad conditions at work and sickness.
Louise tries for the three of them to survive and regards herself as the keeper of her sisters.
Meanwhile, she stands up to her bosses and complains about the dreadful circumstances they work in.
When Amy is seduced by the son of the shop-owner, Louise butts in and stops the romance.
He eventually abandons Amy and becomes seriously injured in a cave-in.
Louise has a secret crush on the son herself and tries to rescue him, hoping he will admit he loves her.Fatty is an obese and timid man who rescues a little girl from drowning.
The girl who turns out to be the daughter of the Police Commissioner.
The grateful Commissioner offers Fatty a job on the Police Force.
Fatty accepts but soon finds out the job isn't all that it's cracked up to be.Captain Ward is an old man living in a ship with his granddaughter Sally.
Sally's mother died when Sally was born and never revealed the identity of her father.
That's why Ward is overprotective of Sally.
One day, Sally finds a dog and sneaks him into the ship.
He runs away, however.
Sally follows him to the mansion of Judge Gordon.
There she meets Hugh Schuyler, the young friend of Ward.
They fall in love, but Ward chases him away.
When the judge visits the captain, he tells him he doubts he is Sally's father.
Ward becomes angry and kills him.
Sally finds out Ward is actually her father and accepts a marriage proposal from Hugh.
She elopes with him and they live happily ever after.Turner Classic Movies SynopsisThe plot involves a young socialite pretending to be a cook, who falls in love with a man she thinks is a hired hand, but he is actually a millionaire.
The film was not well received by critics, who generally found it pleasant but dullA list of reviews is included in Bruce Long's Taylorology, although the New York Times called it "a funny, extremely well-produced comedy".<ref namehttp://movies.nytimes.com/movie/95819/How-Could-You-Jean-/overview?scp%22how%20could%20you%20jean%22&stHow Could You, Jean?
|publisher18 August 2010}} A novel by Norwegian writer Sigrid Boo, Vi som går kjøkkenveien  has an almost identical plot to Brainerd's original book.
Boo's novel was adapted for the U.S. film Servants' Entrance  starring Janet Gaynor, which had an identical plot to the 1918 film.
As the New York Times commented, "apparently, the old Pickford comedy was already forgotten, and no copyright infringement suit was filed.
"A gang of men frame Harvey Hanford Houdini for murder, and also decide to kidnap his fiancée.
Hanford is quickly apprehended by the police and falsely imprisoned for the crime.
Shortly after being sent to jail, Hanford escapes and pursues the men who framed him.
The film unfolds as a series of Houdini's trademark set-piece stunts and escapes - his tormentors chaining him up and imprisoning him on numerous occasions, only for Hanford to escape.
The film concludes with a climactic mid-air collision following an aeroplane pursuit.
Following the collision, which Hanford survives, Hanford is reunited with his fiancée.In this 10-minute film short, Algie Allmore is given only one year to prove that he's the man to marry Harry Lyons' daughter.The film centers on the relationship between Lady Mary Loam , a British aristocrat, and her butler, Crichton.
Crichton fancies a romance with Mary, but she disdains him because of his lower social class.
When the two and some others are shipwrecked on a desert island, they are left to fend for themselves in a state of nature.
The aristocrats' abilities to survive are far worse than those of Crichton, and a role reversal ensues, with the butler becoming a king among the stranded group.
Crichton and Mary are about to wed on the island when the group is rescued.
Upon returning to Britain, Crichton chooses not to marry Mary; instead, he asks a maid, Tweeny , to marry him, and the two move to the United States.
The film contains two famous scenes, indicative of de Mille's predilections as a filmmaker.
An early scene depicts Gloria Swanson bathing in an elaborate setting, attended by two maids, lavishing her with rose-water and bath salts, silk dressing gown and luxurious towels.
Toward the end of the film, a fantasy sequence about ancient Babylon shows Swanson posed as Gabriel von Max's famous painting, "The Lion's Bride", which involved her being photographed with an actual lion.Sven Holm and his wife Ingeborg are happily married with three children, and are about to open a shop in Stockholm.
They open the shop, but Sven contracts tuberculosis and dies.
Ingeborg initially tries to run the shop by herself, but when she fails and develops a debilitating ulcer, she turns to the poorhouse for help.
The poorhouse board does not grant her enough assistance to survive outside the workhouse.
She has to sell the shop, her house, and board the three children out to foster families.
After some time, Ingeborg reads in a letter that her daughter, Valborg, is sick.
The poorhouse can't finance a visit, but the determined Ingeborg escapes at night and, after being chased by police, gets to see the child.
When she returns to the poorhouse, the manager is furious that they must pay a fine for the trouble she caused.
Later on, Ingeborg is offered a chance to see her youngest son, this time with the poorhouse's approval.
When the child doesn't recognize her, she is devastated.
She tries to make a doll from her scarf and play with it, but the baby cries and turns to the foster mother.
This hits Ingeborg so hard that she loses her sanity.
She is relegated to the insane women's ward of the workhouse, cradling a plank of wood as if her own child.
After fifteen years, her oldest son, Erik, now a sailor, visits her without any knowledge of his mother's psychosis.
He becomes desperate when Ingeborg doesn't recognize him&mdash;but when he shows her a youthful photograph of herself, which features the inscription "To Erik from mother," her sanity returns.
With the return of her family comes the return of Ingeborg's self.Chaplin plays a handyman at a hotel.
His love interest in the village is the girl played by Edna Purviance.
A young man from the city arrives and appears to have an eye for Edna too.
Chaplin tries to win her back.In Kansas, Dorothy and Betsy are chased into the cornfield by the mule, Hank, and the farmhands draw their muskets at the beast.
Dorothy discovers in the field that the family scarecrow is alive.
The Scarecrow builds a haystack and warns Dorothy and the farm animals to take cover.
A cyclone appears overhead and carries the haystack away, thus letting it fall into the Land of Oz.
In Oz, the travelers meet the Tin Woodsman and the Lion.
When they enter a forest, Momba the Witch flies out the window as her soldiers come out of the cottage, they are all captured and led into the witch's jail-house.
After defeating the wicked witch, the travelers arrive at the Emerald City for the retirement party of the Wizard.Millicent Hawthorne is the six-year-old daughter of a wealthy family.
When a jewel thief robs the family, he kidnaps and raises Millicent to be a thief.
Her parents try to forget about her loss by supporting people who need help, while Millicent gets amnesia after a fall on her head.
When a friend of her parents notices her, he immediately informs them.
A chase to reunite with the daughter follows.A poor student rescues a beautiful countess and soon becomes obsessed with her.
A sorcerer makes a deal with the young man to give him fabulous wealth and anything he wants, if he will sign his name to a contract .
The student hurriedly signs the contract, but doesn't know what he's in for.
A long plot summary is given by psychologist Otto Rank in The Double .
The film is referenced in the detective story "The Image in the Mirror" by Dorothy Sayers, in which Lord Peter Wimsey helps clear Mr. Duckworthy, a man wrongly suspected of murder.
Among other things Duckworthy tells: "When I was seven or eight, my mother took me with her to see a film called "The Student of Prague".
It was a costume piece about a young man at the university who sold himself to the devil, and one day his reflection came stalking out of the mirror on its own, and went about committing dreadful crimes, so that everybody thought it was him".
.Through mistaken identity, a rich contractor's son is impressed into the labor force building his own father's dam at Silver Peak.
When construction of a dam in Silver Peak, Colorado threatens their land, rancher Crofton  and his daughter Enid  confront New York contractor James Dukane, Sr. .
Dukane sends his son James "Jimmy" Dukane, Jr.  to manage construction and to deal with the dam's impact on the locals, hoping that the task will help his son mature.
However, enroute to the construction site, Jimmy is waylaid by a vagabond, and his clothing and identification are stolen.
Dressed in the tramp's clothes, Jimmy finally meets with the construction foreman Corbetson , who skoffs at his claimed identity and instead puts him to work with a pick and shovel.
During his labors, Jimmy learns that Corbetson has been using sub-par materials and embezzling monies from Dukane Sr, and that to hide his crime, Corbetson is planning to blow up the dam.Mabel  tries to sell hot dogs at a car race, but isn't doing a very good job at it.
She sets down the box of hot dogs and leaves them for a moment.
Charlie  finds them and gives them away to the hungry spectators at the track as Mabel frantically tries to find her lost box of hot dogs.
Mabel finds out that Charlie has stolen them and sends the police after him.
Chaos ensues.The film begins with a short prologue explaining the science of Eugenics; contrasting the careful selection observed in the animal world with the less predictable breeding habits of humans.
This is illustrated by the story of the Joyce family, headed by Jim Joyce , a cruel and senseless man.
Joyce's son Larry  is by nature a sensitive kid, but Jim Joyce turns him into a heartless monster, strangling a cat as a sort of coming of age ritual.
Larry Joyce contracts a case of syphilis, and seeks out treatment from Doctor Von Eiden , who also takes a keen interest in Larry's sister May .
Von Eiden encourages May to make a break with her family, and she succeeds.
However she is unable to find employment and enters into a relationship with a wealthy senator  as a kept woman.
While May will not marry the Senator, her sister Jennie  does marry a man named "Bull" McGee , an abusive lout just like her father.
Their infant child is killed when McGee trips over its cradle in a drunken stupor, and Jennie becomes delusional, endlessly rocking the cradle with a doll inside.
McGee is repulsed by her condition and puts Jennie away quietly through selling her into prostitution.
May manages to wrest Jennie away from this peril, but Jennie expires soon after.
Von Eiden, however, has managed to restore Larry's original sensitivity through a surgical procedure; May has broken off the relationship with the Senator and agrees to marry Von Eiden.
The twenty-four minute film follows Arbuckle's antics at Coney Island, the New York City amusement park and beach resort, where he sneaks away from his wife to enjoy the attractions, gets a rival for another woman arrested, and disguises himself as a woman.
The Keystone Kops are also featured.
Coney Island was filmed before Keaton had fully established his screen persona.
Because of this, he employs a wide range of facial expressions, including mugging and laughing, differing drastically from his subsequent unsmiling, but still eloquent, expression.
Arbuckle breaks the fourth wall in one scene where, about to change his clothes, he directly looks at the camera and gestures for it to raise its view above his waist; the camera obligingly does so.Charlie and his partner are to deliver a piano to 666 Prospect St. and repossess one from 999 Prospect St.Dr.
Friedrich von Kammacher , a surgeon, is devastated after his wife develops a brain disorder and is institutionalized.
On the advice of his parents, von Kammacher leaves Denmark to gain some respite from his wife's illness.
Von Kammacher travels to Berlin, where he meets a young dancer named Ingigerd  and the doctor becomes fond of her and very interested in her.
However she has a large amount of admirers and thus Von Kammacher gives up on her.
However, while in Paris he sees an ad in the paper that she is going to New York with her father and decides to follow her.
Von Kammacher buys a first ticket on the same liner as Ingigered, the SS Roland.
Aboard the ship, von Kammacher learns Ingigerd has a boyfriend with her and thus he backs down.
Shortly after, he is called to treat a young Russian girl with seasickness and they nearly get romantically involved but class stops this from happening.
Halfway across the sea the Roland strikes an unseen object which causes massive flooding and dooms the ship.
The passengers panic as the ship sinks into the Atlantic.
Von Kammacher finds Ingigered passed out in her cabin from shock and carries her to a lifeboat.
He goes back and searches in vain her father but when he can't find him, von Kammacher returns to the lifeboat and holds Ingigereds hand as the lifeboat pulls away.
They watch in horror as the Roland sinks into the ocean.
The liner sinks so rapidly that many of the lifeboats are never launched and several passengers are swept into the sea and drowned.
By morning, only von Kammachers lifeboat is still floating  and 8 still alive.
They are spotted by a cargo liner and saved.
Ingigerd is devastated when she is told that there are no more survivors and both her father and boyfriend have drowned.
Von Kammacher and Ingigerd arrive in New York and she is unable to continue with her career since she is still shocked over the Roland disaster.
Von Kammacher tries to tell her that he loves her and wants a life with her in New York but she refuses to be tied down by one man.
He gives up on her and they go their separate ways after she turns down his offer to live with him in New York.
Von Kammacher is impressed by an art gallery and takes an interest in fine art.
Through the artistic community, he is introduced to a kind and pleasant sculptress named Eva Burns, and they develop a friendship.
A New York doctor, who is a friend of von Kammacher, offers him the use of a mountain cabin, where it is hoped that Friedrich will find some peace and solace.
While he is in the mountains, a telegram from Denmark arrives in New York with information that von Kammacher's wife has died.
Upon hearing the news, Friedrich falls critically ill. Eva takes it upon herself to tend to him in the mountain cabin.
As she nurses him back to health, their relationship blossoms.
Happiness returns to Friedrich's life as he realizes Eva will be a good mother for his children.Although only a dental assistant, Charlie pretends to be the dentist.
After receiving too much anesthesia, a patient can't stop laughing, so Charlie knocks him out with a club.
Charlie is then sent to the drug store by the dentist, gets in a fight with a man who receives a brick in the face, thus becoming another dental patient.
He also pulls the skirt off of the dentist's wife while she is outside walking.
At one point Charlie pulls the wrong tooth from an unfortunate patient, using over sized pliers.Liberty Horton, an American heiress, is kidnapped by a Mexican rebel and ransomed to fund his rebellion.The story involves Chaplin and Chester Conklin working as waiters at a restaurant where the cooks go on strike.
When the two are forced to work as bakers, the striking cooks put dynamite in the dough, with explosive results.Robert Torrens  is a wealthy American, residing in Italy with his wife  and only daughter, Lois .Eileen Stewart is credited 20 seconds into the film Franzoli Soldo  is a mafia chief who pretends to be a butler and is in Torrens' employ.
One day, he drinks too freely of his masters' wine.
Fellow employee Pietro  informs Mr. Torrens, who next dischargs Soldo.
Soldo wants revenge and kills Pietro.
He is caught, however, and is being put on trial for the murder.
He is found guilty and sentenced to a life in jail.
One month later, a mafia member helps him escape.
He is determined to take revenge on the Torrens family and kidnaps Lois.
When the parents find out, they call the police.
Soldo is soon thought of to be the kidnapper, but he ordered some of Torrens' staff member to convince the parents Lois drowned in an accident.
Meanwhile, Soldo flees to his relatives, including his wife Bianca  - who is ordered to raise Lois as her own - and his son Beppo .
Lois grows up to be Peppina , Beppo's sister.
Soldo decided to meanwhile take refuge in America.
Fifteen years later.
The Duchess, an American heiress, takes an interest in Peppina and teaches her English.
A man named Bernando wants to marry Peppina and convinces her parents to let him take her hand.
Peppina, however, has no desire to be with him and asks the Duchess what to do.
She helps her escape overseas and promises her a friend of hers will provide her a home in America.
Peppina runs away from home in disguise and dresses up as a boy so nobody will recognize her.
Hugh Carroll ([[Eugene O'Brien  is on the boat as well and meets Amy, a socialite from New York.
Peppina takes refuge in his cabin, but is soon caught by him.
He provides her comfort and food and offers her to stay at his cabin for the night.
However, he doesn't know Peppina is actually a girl.
In New York, Soldo finds out the Torrens family will move to New York as well.
He thinks he will be rewarded if he brings their daughter back to him and is determined to make some money.
He sends his relatives in Italy a letter they should bring Peppina to him.
Bianca responds she doesn't know where Peppina is.
Meanwhile, Peppina spots Hugh together with Amy and decides to leave him.
In New York, she applies for a job in Soldo's café.
After a bad experience with Soldo, Peppina becomes a messenger "boy".
When she is taken under arrest, she confesses she is actually a girl.
Hugh happens to be a chief at the police station and releases Peppina and orders for Soldo to be taken under arrest.
After Soldo arrives at the police station, Peppina realizes he was the one who abducted her as a child.
Peppina is now recognized as the Torrens' kid.
Mr. and Mrs. Torrens are soon informed and reunited with their child.
Three years have passed.
Peppina, now living in wealth, and Hugh are in love with each other.Only lasting 15 minutes, it is a light-hearted comedy about the battle between the sexes as several married couples go on a camp-out together.
The women soon realize that the men expect them to do perform all of the work while they relax, leading to several comedic situations.Nora, An actress  is performing in an adaptation of Uncle Tom's Cabin in a Texas town.
A sheriff enters with an attachment against the show.
Nora, dressed as Little Eva, escapes from the venue and gets onto a train.
A tramp makes advances towards her, causing her to jump from the train.
She lands in a field and is arrested for looking suspicious.
She is saved from jail by Ma Forbes , who is after someone to help her with some residents at her boarding house.
The boarders "Soup" McCool  and "Pug" Hennessy  are actually criminals.
They con Ma's son, James  out of $300.
They then plan a bank robbery with the help of Nora.
They think she is a safecracker, who they've been expecting.
Nora plays along, and opens the safe, as she was given the combination from James.
Once the safe has been cracked, Nora raises the alarm and the crooks are caught.
Afterwards, James proposes to Nora.Annie Johnson is a poor orphan working in a shop, when one day a wealthy widow adopts her.
She doesn't know she is only adopting her to take revenge on her daughter-in-law Emily.
When the widow dies, Annie inherits her estate.
Emily is outraged and sues her.
Emily finally wins, but Annie has the last laugh when her husband falls in love with Annie and leaves Emily.The New York Times Review summaryFaith is an orphan who befriends Mark Strong, an alcoholic lawyer.
While Mark is trying to get sober again, Faith is falsely accused for theft and is arrested.
Mark immediately comes to the rescue.A tramp steals a girl's handbag, but when he tries to pick Charlie's pocket loses his cigarettes and matches.
He rescues a hot dog man from a thug, but takes a few with his walking stick.
When the thief tries to take some of Charlie's sausages, Charlie gets the handbag.
The handbag makes its way from person to person to its owner, who is angry with her boyfriend who didn't protect her in the first place.
The boyfriend decides to throw himself in the lake in despair, so Charlie helps him out.The tailor's handyman  burns a count's trousers while ironing them and is fired.
His superior  discovers a note explaining the count can't attend a party, and dresses up like one to take his place.
Chaplin also goes to the residence hosting the party, but runs into the tailor.
They both then struggle to win the fair maiden, Miss Moneybags .
Soon, Charlie is distracted by a gypsy girl and the tailor must fend off other suitors.
The real Count finally arrives, learns of the imposters and calls the police.
Chaplin makes a mad dash through the party and scampers away to safety.A series of 12 2-reel episodes, each a separate and unrelated story, relating the adventures of Christopher Race and his high-powered automobile, "The Scarlet Runner".
Each episode has a different cast, except for the continuing role of Earle Williams.A melodrama about an American who becomes a revolutionary leader battling evil government spies in Argentina.
William Desmond Taylor portrays the title role, and Denis Gage Deane-Tanner, Taylor's younger brother, is thought to have played the small role of a blacksmith.Three men will fight for the love of a charming girl.
Charlie and one suitor teams up against the third, and play dirty, throwing bricks and using a mallet.
However, Charlie double-crosses his partner, thus losing his trust and the girl in the end.The story is from the Biblical Book of Judith.
During the siege of the Jewish city of Bethulia by the Assyrians, a widow named Judith  has a plan to stop the war as her people suffer starvation and are ready to surrender.
The widow disguises herself as a harem girl and goes to the enemy camp, where she beguiles a general of King Nebuchadnezzar, whose army is besieging the city.
Judith seduces Holofernes , then while he is drunk cuts off his head with a sabre.
She returns to her city, a heroine.Periwinkle is a teenage waif.
One day, she nearly drowns, but is rescued by the wealthy Richard.
They fall in love and marry.The nobleman Lothario seduces Musette, the daughter of Giarno, the leader of the nearby Gypsy camp.
When Musette learns that Lothario is married and has a baby, Mignon, she jumps off a cliff.
For revenge, Giarno kidnaps Mignon.
After Lothario's wife dies of grief, Lothario becomes a mad, wandering minstrel.
When Mignon is sixteen, the young nobleman Wilhelm Meister, seeing her mistreatment, buys Mignon from Giarno.
Mignon falls in love with Wilhelm, but she believes that he loves the actress Filina.
At a fete, Filina locks Mignon, whom Lothario has befriended, into her room.
Filina traps Wilhelm into proposing, but as he announces their engagement, Lothario, acting on Mignon's earlier suggestions, sets the castle on fire.
Wilhelm rescues Mignon, but because she still believes that he loves Filina, she leaves with Lothario.
When an innkeeper recognizes Lothario and shows him a piece of the baby Mignon's belt, Lothario's memory returns.
As Mignon has the other piece, she is revealed to be his daughter.
Wilhelm finds them, and he and Mignon vow to marry.When one of the actors on a movie set doesn't show up, Charlie gets his chance to be on camera and replaces the actor.
While waiting, he plays in a dice game and gets on many people's nerves.
When he finally gets to act, he ruins his scene, accidentally destroys the set, and tears the skirt of the star of the movie.
