The Players Club
Theatrical release poster
Directed by Ice Cube
Written by Ice Cube
Produced by Carl Craig
Patricia Charbonnet
Starring Bernie Mac
Monica Calhoun
A. J. Johnson
Ice Cube
Alex Thomas
LisaRaye
Jamie Foxx
John Amos
CinematographyMalik Sayeed
Edited by Suzanne Hines
Music by Hidden Faces
Production
companiesGhettobird Productions
Cube Vision Productions
Distributed by New Line Cinema
The Players Club
The Players Club  is a 1998 American dark comedy
drama  thriller  film writt en and directed by Ice Cube in
his feature film directorial debut . In addition to Ice
Cube, the film stars Bernie Mac, Monica Calhoun ,
Jamie Foxx , John Amos , A. J. Johnson , Alex Thomas,
Charlie Murphy , Terrence Howard , Faizon Love and
LisaRaye McCoy  in her first starring role.
Diana Armstrong gazes at the ruins of the Players
Club, a strip club where she used to work. She begins
reminiscing about the time she moved out of her
parents' home with hopes of attending college. On her
own, Diana finds a job at a shoe store, where she meets
Ronnie and Tricks,  who work for Dollar Bill at the
Players Club. They  convince Diana she would make
better money stripping . Dollar Bill gives Diana a job
and the name "Diamond." Four years later, her younger
cousin Ebony comes to live with her and also starts
working at the club. Ebony is soon out of control,
drinking excessive ly, staying out all night, and
stripping at private house parties.
Several scenes depict episodes in the life of the club: A
visit from  a famous rapper ends in a fistfight as the
bodyguard punches Clyde in the back of the head.
Reggie attacks the bodyguard and is thrown through
the plate glass window of the VIP section. He starts
shooting until XL disarms him. Diamond deals with a
club patro n-turned-stalker , Miron. And she angrily
kicks Ebony out of her apartment after catching her in
bed with Diamond's boyfriend.
Dollar Bill is confronted by a man who works for St.
Louis, a drug lord and loan shark to whom Dollar Bill
owes $60,000. He warns Dollar Bill if he doesn't make
a payment of $10,0 00 to St. Louis, he will hunt him
down. The next day as Dollar Bill tries to leave the
club, St. Louis' men beat Dollar unconscious and throwPlotRelease date April 10, 1998
Running time 104 minutes
Country United States
Language English
Budget $5 million[1]
Box office $23.3 million[2]him into the trunk of his car. They are stopped by two
crooked cops. Dollar Bill is found in the trunk and
arrested on warrants . He is later bailed out and returns
to the club.
Ebony is offered a gig to dance at Ronnie's brother
Junior's bachelor party . While Ronnie is outside
smoking, one of St. Louis's henchmen, named Reggie,
tricks Junior into raping Ebony . Reggie tells him that
he and Clyde had run a train on her weeks ago, but it was spoiled by Diamond. Junior goes into Ebony's
room while she is changing and against Ebony's pleas, Junior turns off the lights and violently beats and
rapes her while his friends listen to it in disgust. The guys decide to leave  the party and end their
friendship with Junior . Ronnie discovers Junior with Ebony , and both flee the scene leaving Ebony in the
motel room. Diamond and Blue arrive and they discover an unconscious and bloodied Ebony and they
call 911. A furious Diamond then arrives at the Players Club and beats Ronnie up as punishment,
avenging Ebony . Diamond then punches Tricks in the face and quits in front of Dollar Bill before she
leaves with Blue.
Ronnie and Tricks are arrested by the police. That same night, St. Louis comes to collect and personally
shoots up the club. As Dollar tries to escape, he is captured by St. Louis' henchmen. Later , St. Louis'
associate Brooklyn destroys the club with a LAW rocket .
Ebony , still sporting the bruises from her rape, now has a job working at the shoe store. Ebony and Diana
are back on good terms again. In voice-over , Diamond narrates the fates of the characters, including
herself, who is currently in a relationship with Blue. She now works on the news.
LisaRaye McCoy  as Diana "Diamond" Armstrong: A college student, single mom and
aspiring journalist who gets a job at The Players Club to raise money for her college tuition.
Bernie Mac  as "Dollar Bill": the dim crooked owner of The Players Club who is threatened by
a loan shark named St. Louis.
Monica Calhoun  as Ebony Armstrong: Diamond's younger cousin who becomes out-of-
control after getting a job at The Players Club.
A. J. Johnson  as "Lil' Man": the club's small-sized doorman who is frequently taunted and
harmed by St. Louis and his crooks.
Ice Cube  as Reggie: A henchman working for St. Louis.
Alex Thomas as Clyde: Reggie's best friend who, like Reggie, has a thirst towards Ebony
and works for St. Louis.
Jamie Foxx  as "Blue": the club's radio disc jockey and Diamond's love interest.
John Amos  as Of ficer Freeman: a crooked police of ficer who harasses suspects.
Faizon Love  as Of ficer Peters: another police of ficer who harasses suspects.
Charles O. Murphy  as "Brooklyn": St. Louis' main henchman.
Adele Givens  as "T ricks": A stripper at The Players Club and a right-hand of Ronnie.
Chrystale Wilson as Ronnie: A stripper at The Players Club with a rivalry with Diamond and
Ebony .
Tracy C. Jones as TinaCastTerence Howard  as K.C.: St. Louis' secondary henchman and Brooklyn's partner in crime.
Larry McCoy as "St. Louis": a wheelchair-using gangster to whom Dollar Bill owes money .
Ronn Riser as Professor Mills
Dick Anthony Williams  as Mr . Armstrong: Diamond's father
Badja Djola  as "The Doctor": St. Louis' enforcer .
Tiny Lister  as "XL" The Bouncer: a tall, muscular bouncer of the club.
Judyann Elder  as Mrs. Armstrong: Diamond's mother
Oren Williams  as Jamal Armstrong: Diamond's 4 year old son.
Samuel Monroe Jr . as Junior: Ronnie's younger brother who beats and rapes Ebony in the
film's climax.
Luther Campbell  as Luke: a rapper who visits the club.
Michael Clarke Duncan  as Bodyguard: the tall, muscular bodyguard for Luke.
Montae Russell  as Lance: Diamond's boyfriend whom she ended her relationship with after
he had sex with Ebony .
A successful soundtrack was released on March 17, 1998, It peaked at #10 on the Billboar d 200 and #2
on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums .
The movie opened on April 10, 1998 and debuted at No. 5 in the box office, behind City of Angels , Lost
in Space , Titanic , and Species II.[3] It went on to gross $23,047,939 domestically , and $213,546 in foreign
markets for a total lifetime gross of $23,261,485.[2]
On Rotten Tomatoes , the film has an approval rating of 35%, based on 17 reviews, with an average rating
of 5.20/10.[4]
Roger Ebert  awarded the film 3 out of 4 stars and said, "Ice Cube makes 'The Players Club' observant and
insightful; beneath its melodrama lurks unsentimental information about why young women do lap
dances for a living, and what they think about themselves and their customers."[5] He added , "What's
interesting about [the film] is how it moves through various tones and kinds of material. There's the
documentary stuff, the crime story , Diana's shaky romance with a new boyfriend, Ebony's problems, and
comic relief from the stylized dialogue of Dollar Bill and his doorman, L'il Man...And then a strong
underpinning of economic reality".[5] He noted, "The movie doesn't preach, but it has values. It sees theSoundtrack
Reception
Box office
Critical responsePlayers Club as a job, and the women there are workers, not sex objects."[5] Owen Gleiberman  of
Entertainment Weekly also gave a positive  review . Like Ebert, he praised the cast, particularly LisaRaye's
performance as Diana.[6]
1. "The Players Club"  (https://www .the-numbers.com/movie/Players-Club-The-(1998)) . The
Numbers . Retrieved May 24,  2023 .
2. "The Players Club"  (http://www .boxof ficemojo.com/movies/?id=playersclub.htm) . Box Office
Mojo .
3. "City of Angels' Takes Wing in Heavenly Opening W eekend"  (https://www .latimes.com/archiv
es/la-xpm-1998-apr-13-ca-38767-story .html) . The Los Angeles T imes . April 13, 1998 .
Retrieved 2010-12-29 .
4. "The Players Club (1998)"  (https://www .rottentomatoes.com/m/players_club) . Rotten
Tomatoes . Fandango Media . Retrieved 14 November  2023 .
5. Ebert, Roger (May 8, 1998). "The Players Club"  (https://www .rogerebert.com/reviews/the-pla
yers-club-1998) . RogerEbert.com . Retrieved May 24,  2023 .
6. Gleiberman, Owen (April 16, 1998). "The Players Club"  (https://ew .com/article/1998/04/16/pl
ayers-club-3/) . Entertainment W eekly . Retrieved May 24,  2023 .
The Players Club  (https://www .boxof ficemojo.com/movies/?id=playersclub.htm)  at Box
Office Mojo
The Players Club  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0119905/)  at IMDb  
The Players Club  (https://www .rottentomatoes.com/m/players_club)  at Rotten Tomatoes
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Players_Club&oldid=1259224215"Refer ences
External links
