L'Assassinat du duc de Guise
Directed by Charles le Bargy
André Calmettes
Written by Henri Lavedan
Produced by Frères Lafitte
Starring Charles le Bargy
Albert Lambert
Gabrielle Robinne
Berthe Bovy
CinematographyÈmile Pierre
Music by Camille Saint-Saëns
Distributed by Pathé Frères
Release dates 17 November 1908
(France)
17 February 1909 (US)
Running time approx. 17 minutes
Country France
Language French
The Assassination of the Duke of Guise
The Assassination of the Duke of Guise  (1908 )
(original French title: La Mort du duc de Guise ; often
referred to as L'Assassinat du duc de Guise ) is a
French film d'art  silent film directed by Charles le
Bargy and André Calmettes , adapted  by Henri
Lavedan , and featuring actors of the Comédie-
Française  and prom inent set designers. It is one of the
first films to feature both an original film score ,
composed by Camille Saint-Saëns ,[1] and a screenplay
by an eminent screenwriter .[2][3]
Lasting longer than was then usual, about 15 minutes,
the film more or less accurately depicts the events of
the day in 1588 when King Henry III (played by co-
director le Bargy) summoned his powerful rival, Duke
Henri de Guise , to his chambers at the Château de
Blois  and had him brutally murdered. The film has its
share of lurid thrills  and better acting than most films
of the time. It is staged in a somewhat theatrical
manner but has slow pacing throughout.
The Assassination  was one of the first and most
successful films to be made by Le Film d'Art , a
production compan y founded in 1907 with the
intention of making films that would earn the respect
of the cultural elite as well as the patronage of large
audiences.[4] The script was written for the screen (by
Henri Lavedan ), but its costumes and staging followed
the historical tradition of the French theater .
The movie contains the rudiments of the more
elaborate narrative techniques of films to come. Although it consists of only nine shots, with theatrical
rather than cinematic acting and staging, it presents enough elements of a story that it could be
understood on its own. It does this through continuity of action and space. Leading up to and including
the assassination, the camera follows the movements of the main character over five separate shots,Synopsis
ProductionThe Assassination of the Duke of Guisethrough three separate rooms and back. Other
elements were theatrical rather than filmic, such
as sets with painted  backdrops and the camera's
single stationary position for each scene,
reminiscent of a seat on the main floor , not far
from the "stage."
Calmettes and le Bargy were both emine nt actors,
and le Bargy a member of the Comédie-
Française .
Charles le Bargy  as Henry III
Albert Lambert  as Le duc de Guise
Gabrielle Robinne  as Marquise de Noirmoutier , maîtresse du duc
Berthe Bovy  as Le page
Jean Angelo
Albert Dieudonné
Huguette Duflos
Raphaël Duflos
Charles Lorrain
Rolla Norman
The Fairylogue and Radio-Plays  contains the earlies t documented original score in all of cinema; The
Assassination of the Duke of Guise  debuted in the United States around four months later. Calmettes is
credited with the idea of scoring the film, and Saint-Saëns was a logical choice for such a prestigious
venture. At age 73, he was probably France's most celebrated composer , and he had extensive experience
in theater music. The score integrates small-scale dramatic details within a large-scale musical form to a
degree rarely equaled during the rest of the silent period.[4] Information about how he approached  the
project is scarce and ambiguous. Bonnerot , his biographer , tells us that he worked out the music "scene
by scene before the screen"; and that because of the approach of winter he left Paris before the film's
première, leaving Fernand LeBorne  to conduct the orchestra. Saint-Saëns had a piano reduction of the
score, dedicated to LeBorne, published by Durand  that year .
The première was held at the Salle Charras  on 17 November 1908. It was high-toned throughout, befitting
such an "art" film. Sponsored and advertised by Le Film d'Art under the title "Visions d'Art", the various
entertainments mostly combined image ry and live music. There were two other features beside The
Assassination , each with an original score of its own: Le Secret de Myrto , depicting ballerina Régina
Badet  dancing to music of Gaston Berardi ; and L'Empr einte , with music by Fernand Le Borne conta ined0:00
Cast
Scor e
Premier ea series of "picturesque tableaux" using silhouettes of Pierrot  and other pantomime figures. The program
included color photographs from Asia, described as "fairy-tale views" taken by Gervais-Courtellemont .
Le Bargy also recited Edmond Rostand 's poem "Le Bois sacré", which was said to be "illustrated by a
ballet—or rather , a choreographic vision."
The film's  success in France inspired other companies to make similar films, thus inaugurating a genre
which eventually became known as films d'art , taking the name of the leading produ ction company; a
genre characterized by elaborate theatric ality in sets, costumes, and acting, and associated with historical
dramas concerned with noble characters.
The Assas sination of the Duke of Guise  was released in the United States by Pathé Frères on February 17,
1909. There is no trace of a special premiere for the program. In Moving Pictur e World, Pathé simply
announced the film as one of its current "dramatic" releases, at a length of 853 feet, considerably shorter
than the version for which Saint-Saëns had composed his score; and the company dropped the film from
its listings five weeks later. There is no record that the score was even heard in America at that time.
Neither the film nor the score was suited to the nickelodeon -centered American film industry in 1909, but
it was nevertheless reviewed extensively over the next several weeks.
It received considerable attention from critics because of the reputation of its creators and crew . Many
critics noted that with the movie's basis in French history , the film might appeal to the upper class, but the
average American moviegoer might not be able to follow the plot. When comparing the movie with
contemporary Amer ican historical drama, many critics considered The Assas sination  to have better
photography , better acting, and better dramatic construction.
Gunning, Tom, D.W. Griffith and the Origins of American Narrative Film , 1994, University of
Illinois Press
Hanson, Bernard, "D.W . Grif fith: Some Sources," The Art Bulletin , Vol. 54, No. 4. (December
1972), pp. 493–515
Marks, Martin Miller , Music and the Silent Film: Contexts and Case Studies, 1895–1924 ,
1997, Oxford University Press
Milestones of the Millennium: Great Film Music  (https://www .npr.org/templates/story/story .ph
p?storyId=1068363) , 1999, NPR
Counts and dukes of Guise
1. Davis, Richard (1999). Complete Guide to Film Scoring , Berklee Press, Boston. ISBN  0-
634-00636-3 , p. 17Reception
Sour ces
See also
References2. Robertson, Patrick (2007). Film Facts . Wigston: Quantum Books. pp. 45–46. ISBN  978-1-
84573-235-6 .
3. Magill's Survey of Silent Films, V ol.1 A-FLA  p.155 edited by Frank N. Magill c.1982 ISBN  0-
89356-240-8  (3 book set ISBN  0-89356-239-4 )
4. Marks, Martin Miller , 1997, Music and the Silent Film,  p. 50.
The Assassination of the Duke of Guise  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0000637/)  at IMDb
L'Assassinat du duc de Guise , Op. 128 : Scores at the International Music Score Library
Project
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=The_Assassination_of_the_Duke_of_Guise&oldid=1222186683"External links
