Chala Bagundi
Directed by E. V. V. Satyanarayana
Written by Janardhan Maharshi
(dialogues)
Screenplay by E. V. V. Satyanarayana
Story by E. V. V. Satyanarayana
Produced by E. V. V. Satyanarayana
Starring Srikanth
Vadde Naveen
Malavika
Asha Saini
CinematographyC. Ramprasad
Music by Koti
Production
companyE. V .V. Cinema
Release date 18 February 2000
Country India
Language Telugu
Chala Bagundi
Chala Bagundi  is a 2000  Indian Telugu-language film
directed and produced by E. V. V. Satyanarayana . The
film stars Srikanth , Vadde Naveen, Malavika  and Asha
Saini . The film was a hit at the box office and was
remade in Kannada as Bahala Chennagide  with
Shivrajkumar . The film won two Nandi Awards .
Sivaji (Vadde Naveen) is an orphan and a child laborer ,
who saves  Vamsi's (Srikanth) father from an accident
despite his employer's wishes of not getting involved.
Sivaji is left behind after his angry employer leaves
him and manages to save Prasad (Srikanth dad) by
hailing help. Vamsi's parents, grateful for his timely
rescue, take Sivaji home and treats him as their own
son. Sivaji has only one condition - he will stay only if
they don't object to his drinking.
Sivaji and Vamsi share a strong bond of friendship
growing up. Vamsi is a teetotaler and together with
Sivaji they look after their father's business, which
blooms under their smart governance . Sivaji stays
separately in a rented room once he is old enough as he
hates to show his drinking/hangover  side to their
parents. The frien ds share a pact wherein their
respective brides should be chosen by the other . Vamsi
tries to set Sivaji up for marriage, but the girl rejects
him because of Sivaji's drinking issue. Meanwhile,
Vamsi comes across Seetha (Malavika) a naive girl
fresh from the village, when she attends an interview
for a posting in his company , and falls for her instantly .
The same night Sivaji, who leaves the bar drunk due to
a cyclone warning and heavy rainfall comes across Seetha who asks for a ride to the railway station. She
had to go back to her village the very same day and the auto she was travellin g in broke down. Seetha
soon realizes that Sivaji is drunk driving and becomes wary of his intentions. Sivaji, under the influence
takes a diversion from the route, pulls over in an abandoned area and tries to force himself on Seetha.
Vamsi, who was unable to reach Sivaji at his home, tries at the bar he frequents and finds out that Sivaji
left already drunk while purchasing another bottle of liquor . Vamsi tries to follow up by driving to places
he thinks Sivaji might visit, as he is concerned about his friend. He misses Sivaji and Seetha, even thoughPlothe stops in their vicinity . Sivaji injures Seetha during the sexual assault that leaves deep scratches on her
shoulders and midrif f. Seetha finally manages to escape Sivaji by hitting him on the head with a rock and
leaves.
The next day Vamsi finds an injured Sivaji and takes him to a hospital. Sivaj i, who is remorseful and
regrets his drunken actions vows to never touch alcohol, a decision that his family is extremely happy
about. Vamsi along with his family leaves to attend the wedding of their family friend, and meets Seetha
there. They like her and decide to finalize Vamsi and Seetha's marriage only if Sivaji approves; they make
sure to mention this to Seetha's family prior to the meeting. Sivaji is obviousl y shocked to find Seetha
here and leaves the meeting in daze causing Vamsi to think Seetha has been disapproved. Sivaji realizes
that Vamsi  likes Seetha a lot and after she convinces him to forget about their unfortunate meeting and to
not ruin her future, Sivaji fibs about faking his upset reaction and gives Vamsi his blessing.
Once Vamsi and Seetha get married, she starts taking revenge on Sivaji, her goal - to separate the best
friends and get Sivaji to suffer restless nights like she did. Sivaji bears everything Seetha does in silence.
She adds salt to coffee instead of sugar and denies taking money that Sivaji had given her on Vamsi's
orders, making him seem like a thief, etc. Despite it all, Vamsi treats Sivaji like a god and that makes
Seetha super mad that none of her ploys were working. Sivaji eventually marries Ganga (Asha) the
mentally challenged daughter of his landlord once he learns about her past - she has been sexually
assaulted on her way to marriage two years ago and had been in this state (Ganga keeps asking every guy
she meets to marry her) since. Vamsi is against the marriage citing he had previously only joked about
Sivaji marrying her, that he deserves better - someone who can keep him happy. Sivaji is adamant and
convinces his family to accept Ganga as his partner . Vamsi brings the newly married couple to his house
so he and Seetha could keep an eye and guide them through any initial rough patches. Seetha gives Ganga
terrible advice that results in Sivaji being slapped and bitten till blood is drawn. Sivaji leaves their house
early next morning as he is uncomfortable living there.
Vamsi and Ganga's dad visit the doctor who reveals it might be difficult to cure Ganga since a lot of time
has passed  without any treatment. The doctor suggests that her husband should play the role of a doctor
now and that by invoking sexual feelings and attractions in Ganga, there is a possibility of her cure.
Meanwhile, Sivaji approaches Seetha when Vamsi is away and starts groveling at her feet. He begs her to
not let him be the reason her marriage  gets into trouble (Vamsi and Seetha argue and fight a lot over
Sivaji) and that he would do anything to make her happy . Seetha asks Sivaji to leave, since Vamsi treats
him as a god, he should disappear like one.
Sivaji, although anguished and miserable with the ultimatum, heeds her words and leaves with Ganga to
places unknown. Vamsi who tries to surprise Sivaji at midnight on his birthday gets a rude shock. He tries
everywhere, but Sivaji is gone. One day, the watchman of his gated community approaches Vamsi and
informs him of having witnessed Sivaji visiting Seetha and then later leaving in tears. Vamsi, furious that
Seetha has information regarding Sivaji's disappearance, yells at her to tell the truth. Seetha, pissed off
that Vamsi holds Sivaji on a pedestal, speaks of the true nature of her first enco unter with Sivaji and that
the scratches on her body she told were from a mad dog is actually the work of his best friend. Vamsi then
reveals, he had known about it from the start. Vamsi had overheard Seetha, when she promises to put
Sivaji through hell the very next day of her marriage with Vamsi. He explains how he had been aware of
everything Seetha did to inflict pain on his friend and how he had suffered in silence. He even mentions
that had he known of this incident sooner he would have somehow convinced her to marry Sivaji. Vamsi
finally screams that he had enough and if she has a problem with his friend then he has no room for her in
his life. Vamsi's parents try to convince her that Sivaji is not a bad person.  He has made a mistakeconcerning her and he was remorsefu l and did everything in his power to do penance for it, even
marrying a rape victim - in order to give her a happy martial life which would otherwise be denied to her.
(Back then and even now, some people tend to think that if a woman is raped then her life is done with- in
regards to marriage and otherwise) Vamsi and his parents (indirectly) ment ion that Sivaji made an
unintentional mistak e under influence, for which he tried making amends, but Seetha has made plenty of
mistakes, knowingly and she has even caused turmoil to another lady's (Ganga) marriage. How is she any
better and can't she really for give Sivaji?
Seetha, concerned for her husband and regrettable of her actions, goes to Gang a's father and begs him to
tell her about Sivaji' s whereabouts, which he finally does. Sivaji lives in a humble lodgings in Vizag and
works as a lorry driver . Ganga gets cured once she and Sivaji sleep together . Seetha reaches their place
and ties a rakhi to Sivaji, proclaiming him as her brother and to save her husband, who had taken to
writing Sivaji's name all over their bedroom wall in his blood. Sivaji rushes to Hyderabad and his sheer
proximity is enough for Vamsi to regain consciousness. The usual breakdown of sentimental feelings,
pleas and for giveness takes place and they all live happily ever after .
Srikanth  as V amsi
Vadde Naveen  as Sivaji
Malavika  as Seetha
Asha Saini  as Ganga
M. S. Narayana
L.B. Sriram  as Seetha's father
Chandra Mohan  as Prasad - V amsi's Father
Kota Srinivasa Rao  as Ganga's father
Sudha  as Ganga's mother
Chalapathi Rao  as Prasad's V illage friend
Prabha
Suma Kanakala  as V ijaya Lakshmi
Ravi Babu  as Rapist
Tanikella Bharani  as Auto Driver
Devadas Kanakala  as Ganga's Doctor
Master Tanish  as Child Sivaji
Master Koushik as Child V amsi
Lawrence Raghavendra  in a special appearance in the song "Y entabagundi Basu"
Mumtaj  in a special appearance in the song "Y entabagundi Basu"
The music of the film was composed by Koti.[1]Cast
MusicNo Song title Lyricist Singers Duration
1 "Daayamma Daayi"Samaveda Shanmuga
SharmaS. P. Balasubrahmanyam,
Chitra5:08
2 "Daaham Daaha" BhuvanachandraS. P. Balasubrahmanyam,
Chitra4:39
3 "Dave Darevede"Sirivennela
SitaramasastriS. P. Balasubrahmanyam,
Sangeetha5:31
4 "Sreekaram Edi Maro"Sirivennela
SitaramasastriParthasarathy, Gopika
Poornima5:13
5"Eai Rukkamma
Chukkamma"Sirivennela
SitaramasastriChitra 4:24
6"Yentabagundi Basu
Nee Figuru"Bhuvanachandra S. P. Balasubrahmanyam 4:20
A critic from Sify wrote that "Top-ran king director EVV . Satyanarayana has turned producer with Chala
Bagundi  and churned out a good emotional film with Srikanth and Naveen breathin g life into their
characters. The message is that `friend ship` is more sacred than any other relationship in the world.
Naveen leaves everyone behind and walks away with the acting honours but Srikanth wins the sympathy
of the audience at the end".[2][3]
Nandi Awards  - 2000[4][5]
Best Choreographer  - Tara
Best Male Comedian  - L.B. Sriram
1. "Chalabagundi (2006)"  (http://www .raaga.com/channels/telugu/moviedetail.asp?mid=A0000
708). raaga.com . Retrieved 1 April 2013 .
2. "Chala Bagundi"  (https://web.archive.org/web/20220526223133/https://www .sify.com/movie
s/chala-bagundi-review-telugu-pcltUGeedgfjc.html) . Sify. Archived from the original  (https://
www .sify.com/movies/chala-bagundi-review-telugu-pcltUGeedgfjc.html)  on 26 May 2022.
3. "Just Released (18th February 2000) - Chala Bagundi"  (http://www .idlebrain.com/movie/arch
ive/mr-chala.html) . Idlebrain.com . 18 February 2000.
4. "నం   అ రు     తల  పరంపర  (1964 - 2008)"  (http://ipr .ap.nic.in/New_Links/Film.pdf)  [A series
of Nandi Award Winners (1964 - 2008)] (PDF) . Information & Public Relations of Andhra
Pradesh . Archived  (https://web.archive.org/web/20150223135739/http://ipr .ap.nic.in/New_Li
nks/Film.pdf)  (PDF)  from the original on 23 February 2015 . Retrieved 31 December  2020 .(in
Telugu )Reception
Awards
Refer ences5. "Nandi Awards 2000 - 2001"  (http://www .idlebrain.com/news/2000march20/nandiawards200
0.html) . Idlebrain.com . 19 September 2002.
Chala Bagundi  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt1791479/)  at IMDb
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chala_Bagundi&oldid=1212634831"External links
