Snow Buddies
Sales poster
Directed by Robert Vince
Written by Robert Vince
Anna McRoberts
Based on Characters
by Paul Tamasy
Aaron Mendelsohn
Kevin DiCicco
Robert Vince
Anna McRoberts
Produced by Robert Vince
Anna McRoberts
Starring Jimmy Bennett
Mike Dopud
John Kapelos
Charles C. Stevenson
Kris Kristofferson
CinematographyKamal Derkaoui
Edited by Kelly Herron
Music by Brahm Wenger
Production
companiesKeystone Entertainment
Key Pix Productions
Snow Buddies
Snow Buddies  is a 2008 American  adventure  comedy
film and the second installment in the Air Buddies
series . It was released on DVD  on February 5, 2008.
The film takes place in the fictional town of
Ferntiuktuk, Alaska.
It is the final installm ent in the series to feature Buddy
himself as well as any characters from the Air Bud
films.
Air Bud's quintuplet  Golden Retriever  puppies (known
as the Buddies) from the town of Fernfield,
Washington  are having fun with their new owners
before they go to school. The puppies meet up in the
park and decide to play hide and seek. Budderball sees
an ice cream  truck and decides to go in, forcing the
others to try and rescue him, but the Buddies become
trapped in a truck heading to Ferntiuktuk, Alaska .
Upon arrival, the Buddies meet Shas ta, a Siberian
Husky  pupp y whose 11-year-old owner , Adam Bilson,
is determined to win the Alaskan sled dog race because
of what had happe ned to his father , due to a tragic
accident a year prior . The puppies decide to help
Shasta pursue his dreams as well as get to the airport,
located at the finish line. Although Shasta's parents are
both dead,  and the puppies in a predicam ent as there is
nobody to teach them how to become snow dogs,
Shasta manages to persuade a legendary Alaskan
Malamute  named Talon, who had taught Shasta's
deceased father , into teaching the puppies.
When Shasta introduces Adam to his new sleigh team,
the child is delight ed at the prospect of his dreams
finally coming true and the team pursue vigorous
training routines. Adam begins buildin g a new sleigh
with his team of hard-working puppies. Talon proudly
watches as the team's efforts come to fruition and it
seems as though they are cooperating as a team. The
older town huskies, however , are not impressed andPlotDistributed by Walt Disney Studios Home
Entertainment
Release date February 5, 2008
Running time 87 minutes
Country United States
Language Englishbegin to plan their downfall. Two of the huskies
Francois and Philippe, reveal to the Buddies that
Shasta's parents were killed during a dog sled race last
year when the ice beneath them shattered to dishearten
them.
Talon calls the pupp ies to the mountain lake one night
to view the Northern Lights  before he goes of telling
Shasta that he knows all he needs to know and that he
can becom e the great leader that his father once was; once all the puppies say their goodbyes to him,
Talon disappears into the lights. The following morning, the puppies enter the race with Adam, but
everyone else laughs at the thought of a little boy and puppies entering a race. The sherif f goes over the
rules and sees Adam  wrote his own name in the entry list. After being reminded how treacherous the race
is by the sherif f, the puppies begin their track while Jean Geor ge III, an unscrupulous and arrogant French
musher (who is hated by nearly everyon e in town) and last year's champion, cheats his way through every
race by sabotaging the other mushers' sleds or pushing them off their sleds. Soon only young Adam and
Jean Geor ge are left but news of a blizzard arrives and it's too late to call off the race as the racers have
already gotten past the midway checkpoint.
Meanwhile, the puppies' parents, Buddy and Molly follow the puppies to Alaska, after being tipped by
Himalayan cat Miss Mittens, wher e the Saint Bern ard dog Bernie informs  them of their participation in
the race. Sherif f Ryan gets a message sent by Fernfield's Deputy Dan asking for any information on the
Buddies. The Sherif f immediately phones Deputy Dan to inform him that the Buddies are in Alaska, who
then goes to inform their owners at their treehouse  about the good news, much to their delight. A
dangerous blizzard forces Adam and the team to take shelter in an igloo  provided by an Inuit  until the
storm subsides. They come head to head with Jean Geor ge, and Adam gets injured.
Adam then recovers while Francois and Philippe, the lead dogs of Jean Geor ge's team, get into trouble
when the ice beneath them shatters. Jean Geor ge continues and abandons his dogs while Adam and the
puppies begin a rescue operation despite Shasta's fears of his parents death, revealing that they had died
from drowning. The puppies pull Francois and Philippe out of the icy waters and Jean Geor ge continues
the race without any gratitude and abandons their rescuers. Francois and Philippe realize they owe
nothing to their owner for leaving them to die, and everything to Shasta and the Buddies for rescuing
them, and so, decide to "go on strike". They stop and refuse to run any further , causing Jean Geor ge to
lose the race.
Adam is victorious and the Buddies reunite with Buddy and Molly . Jean Geor ge scolds his dogs for
embarrassing him, and they respond by chasing him around the Arctic. The Buddies say goodbye to their
new best friend, Shasta, as well as Adam, and both groups promise that they will stay in touch with each
other . All seven Buddies return home via airplane and are greeted by their owners Sam, Bartleby , Billy ,
Alice, Pete, Henry and Noah, who were waiting for them. Budderball and his owner , Bartleby , are
watching the news the next day and Bartleby is completely dumbstruck when he watches the part about
the Buddies, Adam, and Shasta winnin g the race. That night, Buddy and Molly sit on the roof of their
house and discuss their puppies' accomp lishments, while wondering if they will ever outgrow exploring.The film ends with Adam and a now nearly full-grown Shasta hiking through  Alaska on a cold, winter
night with five new adult huskies, while Talon narrates a reminder for the audience that "life may lead
you where you least expect, but have faith, and you'll know exactly where you were meant to be".
Skyler Gisondo  as B-Dawg
Jimmy Bennett  as Buddha
Josh Flitter  as Budderball
Henry Hodges  as Mudbud
Liliana Mumy  as Rosebud
Tom Everett Scott  as Buddy
Molly Shannon  as Molly
Kris Kristof ferson  as Talon, an Alaskan Malamute
Jim Belushi  as Bernie, a St. Bernard
Paul Rae  as Phillipe, Jean George's secondary lead husky
Lothaire Bluteau  as Francois, Jean George's primary lead husky
Whoopi Goldberg  as Miss Mittens, a Himalayan cat
Christian Pikes as Henry
John Kapelos  as Jean George
Dylan Sprouse  as Shasta, a Siberian Husky  puppy
Richard Karn  as Patrick
Dominic Scott Kay  as Adam Bilson
Cynthia Stevenson  as Jackie
Dylan Minnette  as Noah
An American Humane  Certified Safety Representative visited  the Snow Buddies set on the first day of
filming.[1] Fifteen Golden Retriever puppies were on set and fifteen other were being treated by a local
veterinarian, and their illnesses were eventually diagnosed as Giardia  and Coccidia . On request from the
representative the remaining puppies on set received additional veterinary checks. Twenty-five of the
puppies were from an American breeder and five were from a Canadian breeder . It was discovered that
the puppies were approximately 8 weeks old, which lead to the belief that the puppies were only 6 weeks
old when they were  brought by the trainer to the movie set. Per the USDA  it was at the time illegal to
transport puppies under the age of 8 weeks.
After the removal of all 30 puppies, 28 older Golden Retriever puppies were brought in to continue
filming. All of the 28 older puppies were exposed to parvovirus . Five of the puppie s died, and up to six
others fell ill after exposure to the virus.[1]Cast
ProductionAs a resul t, the film was not permitted to use the "No animals were harmed..." disclaimer and received an
"Unacceptable" marking from the American Humane Association.[2]
Walt Disn ey Studios Home Entertainment  released the film on Blu-ray  on January 31, 2012. The disc
comes with bonus features which include a narration by the director on the visual effects and an audio
commentary by the Buddies and Shasta . Other features include a music video, bloopers and behind the
scenes.
1. "American Humane: Newsroom: News Releases: Snow Buddies"  (https://web.archive.org/w
eb/20070505010904/http://www .americanhumane.org/site/PageServer?pagename=nr_news
_releases_snowbuddies) . 2007-05-05. Archived from the original  (http://www .americanhuma
ne.org/site/PageServer?pagename=nr_news_releases_snowbuddies)  on 2007-05-05 .
Retrieved 2019-10-27 .
2. "Snow Buddies"  (http://www .humanehollywood.org/index.php/movie-archive/item/snow-bud
dies) . Humane Hollywood . Retrieved 2019-10-27 .
Official website  (https://buddies.disney .com/snow-buddies)
Snow Buddies  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt1079448/)  at IMDb
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Snow_Buddies&oldid=1248483454"Home media
Refer ences
External links
