The Merry Gentleman
Theatrical release poster
Directed by Michael Keaton
Written by Ron Lazzeretti
Produced by Ron Lazzeretti
Steven A. Jones
Tom Bastounes
Starring Michael Keaton
Kelly Macdonald
Mike Bradecich
Darlene Hunt
Debbi Burns
Maritza Cabrera
CinematographyChris Seager
Edited by Grant Myers
Music by Edward Shearmur
Distributed by Samuel Goldwyn Films
Release dates January 18, 2008
(Sundance Film Festival)
May 1, 2009 (United
States)
Running time 96 minutes
Country United States
The Merry Gentleman
The Merry Gentleman  is a 2008 neo-noir  film directed
by Michael Keaton  (in his directorial  debut), and
starring Keaton and Kelly Macdonald . It is about a
woman who leaves an abusive relationship to start a
new life in Chicago,  where she forms a friendship with
a hitman who is under going his own emotional crisis.
The Merry Gentleman  is the story of Kate, a young
woman who flees her abusive policeman husband,
moving to Chicago. In her new life, she befriends a co-
worker but otherwise generally keeps to herself, due to
her embarrassment over a black eye left over from her
husband's latest attack. Most everyone she encounters
is of low character , which reinforces her feelings of
loneliness and reclusion.
One night , she is seen in an office window through the
rifle scope of professional hit man Frank Logan, who
is on the roof of the opposite building, as he prepares
to shoot the occupant on another floor . Afterwards,
rather than leaving, he removes his hat and steps out on
to the ledge as he apparently prepares to jump. As Kate
steps out onto the sidewalk, she looks up at the falling
snow and sees Frank on the ledge. She cries out,
startling him into safely falling backward onto the roof.
She decides to bring a small bit of joy to her life by
buying a Christmas tree. Later that night, she
encounters Frank at her apartment building. She
doesn't recognize him as the man on the roof, and he
helps her carry the big Christmas tree to her apartment.
He later returns to meet with her, but collapses from
pneumonia before he can reveal why he's there. Kate
rushes him to the hospital, and despite the
awkwardness of their conversation there , they develop
a friendship that has hints of romance. Some time after
his release, she mentions the old hat that he wears and
wonders about "the things it has seen," unknowingly
referring to the many men that Frank has murdered.PlotLanguage English
Box office $322,581Meanwhile, Kate also becomes the romantic interest of
Murcheson, the detective investigating  Frank's latest
murder . Murcheson asks Kate to stop by her office
after work , presumably to discuss the case, but he has hoped it to be a date, and does not communicate
these intentions. Kate cuts the meeting short when she realizes Murcheson's romantic interest.
Initially , the police remain oblivious to the fact that Frank is a professional killer, due to his framing the
murder on another man, who he then killed in a manner to make the police suspect suicide. However ,
complications arrive when Kate's husband, Det. Michael Elkhart, tracks her down and breaks into her
apartment. Michael swears he has become a safe and spiritual man, but the encounter leaves Kate badly
shaken. She turns to Murcheson for help, but before he can intervene, Frank fatally shoots Michael in his
motel room and makes it look like a suicide. The police begin to suspect that Frank may be behind all
three deaths.
Murcheson asks Kate out on a secon d date, which she reluctantly accepts.  The date turns horribly
awkward, however , when he reveals that he suspects Frank to be a killer . Feeling guilty about her dead
husband and disturbed by Murcheson's suspicions, she visits a church. Frank finds her there, but she is
not comforted by his promise never to hurt her. Frank leaves the church and quietly walks out of her life,
choosing not to subject her to the fear of knowing a professional killer .
The exact details of Frank's departure remain ambiguous. Apparently considering suicide, he drives to a
high bridg e over a forest and tosses his hat into the river far below . Then another car arrives and a man
comes out. We later see Frank retrieve his hat from the water . Unsatisfied with his dreary day job as a
tailor , having left behind the only pleasant aspect of his life, and placing the familiar symbol of his
sinister side back on his head, he walks of f into the woods.
Michael Keaton  as Frank Logan
Kelly Macdonald  as Kate Frazier
Tom Bastounes as Murcheson
Bobby Cannavale  as Michael Elkhart
David Dino W ells Jr . as Passerby
Darlene Hunt  as Diane
Guy van Swearingen as Goldman
William Dick as Mr . Weiss
Ron Lazze retti had planned on directing  the projected film, and was in discussion with Michael Keaton
regarding Keaton's playing one of the lead roles. A few days before production was scheduled to begin,
Lazzeretti suffered a ruptured appendix and underwent extensive treatment. As it became evident that the
project would either wither or be completely canceled, Keaton suggested that he would direct it if the
producers desired (he had been looking for a project with which to make his directorial debut). They
agreed, but a dispute soon arose between  the producers and Keaton on his allege d lack of effort in cutting
and promoting the movie. They sued for breach of contract, leading to Merry Gentleman, LLC v. Geor geCast
Production notes& Leona Prods., Inc. [1] The movie was filmed in Chicago, Illinois , in 26 days from early March thru
mid-April 2007. Many of the producers, principals, supporting actors and tradespeople involved with the
film were residents of Chicago.
Other parts of the movie were also filmed in Bourbonnais, Illinois  and at the Kankakee River State Park.
The film was presen ted at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival , and released to theatres on May 1, 2009, to
positive reviews. As of June 2020 , the film holds a 65% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes , based on 77
reviews with an average rating of 5.91/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "Michael Keaton's
directorial debut, The Merry Gentleman , is a slow character study aided greatly by the performances of
Keaton and Kelly MacDonald."[2] Lisa Schwarzbaum  of Entertainment Weekly  wrote of the film, "This
Debbie Downer of a drama is a bitter slug".[3]
1. "Merry Gentleman, LLC v . George & Leona Productions, Inc., 76 F . Supp. 3d 756 | Casetext
Search + Citator"  (https://casetext.com/case/merry-gentleman-llc-v-george-leona-prods-inc-
1).
2. "The Merry Gentleman (2009)"  (https://www .rottentomatoes.com/m/merry_gentleman) .
Retrieved 15 June  2020  – via www .rottentomatoes.com.
3. Entertainment W eekly  May 8, 2008 pg. 51 .
The Merry Gentleman  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0967945/)  at IMDb
The Merry Gentleman  (http://www .rottentomatoes.com/m/merry_gentleman/)  at Rotten
Tomatoes
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Merry_Gentleman&oldid=1258673235"Critical r eception
Refer ences
External links
