Lasting longer than was then usual, about 15 minutes, the film more or less accurately depicts the events of the day in 1588 when King Henri III  summoned his powerful rival, Duke Henri de Guise, to his chambers at the Château de Blois and had him brutally murdered. The film has its share of lurid thrills, and the pacing is quick throughout, with better acting than most films of the time, and staged in a somewhat theatrical manner.Key scenes of the film included the branding of the stolen cattle by the Marstons, the stealing of the horse 'Marquis of Lorne', the capture of Starlight and Dick Marston, the robbery of the mail coach, the bail up of the gold escort, the sticking up of Whitmans', the attack on Keightley station, the ride of Mrs Keightley to raise the ransom, the escape from Berrima Gaol and Starlight's last stand."ROBBERY UNDER ARMS." The Sydney Morning Herald 11 Nov 1907: 7No prints of the film have been preserved so the film can be considered a lost film. The original screenplay has also been lost. However, some plot descriptions are still known based on contemporary newspaper advertisements of the film. As the name would indicate, the film tells about two local men who are making moonshine in the woods. A customer comes to them, and while sampling the product they start a game of cards, which eventually leads to a fight. While the fight is going on, the local police shows up and arrests the makers while the customer manages to escape.Translated and paraphrased from an original advertisement for the film, as quoted by Hans Kutter in Uutisaitta magazine . The quote itself was included in the book by von Bagh, listed above.The Story of the Kelly Gangs tone is of sorrow, depicting Ned Kelly as "the Last of the Bushrangers, and his friends Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe Byrne," presenting the police hiding under the bed when Aaron Sherritt is shot  and portraying school master Curnow's action of warning the train as heroic  Among the surviving images are two scenes that suggest considerable sophistication for that time. The scene of the police shooting parrots in the bush skillfully positions the shooter in the middle ground to the left of the image, firing upwards toward the far right, with the gang watching him from close foreground. The capture of Ned is shot from the viewpoint of the police, as Ned advances, an impressive figure weaving towards them under the weight of his armour and the shock of the bullets. According to the synopsis given in the surviving program, the film originally comprised six sequences. Some confusion regarding the plot has emerged as a result of a variant poster from the film dating from 1910. Its similar  photos suggest that either the film was being added to, or altered, or an entirely new version was made by Johnson and Gibson, as the poster proclaims.http://www.prov.vic.gov.au/provcasts/images/NedKellyPosterBefore2.jpg Fragments of another version of the story, “the Perth fragment,” shows Aaron Sherritt being shot outside, in front of an obviously painted canvas flat. This now appears to be from a different film altogether, perhaps a cheap imitation by a theatrical company, keen to cash in on the success of the original.Ina Bertrand and Ken Robb  "The Story of the Kelly Gang". Cinema Papers, No. 36, February 1982, p.18-22A geographic society proposes to travel around the world. Many vehicles are made for this voyage, including a submarine, an automobile, and a railway box car filled with ice. The machines are loaded onto a train, and are sent to the Swiss Alps, where the travelers will begin their journey. They first board an automobile named "The Impossible Carriage" and journey through the mountains, only to crash and to be rushed to a hospital. After they have recovered, they board a train with their vehicles, and journey up a mountain top. Getting higher and higher every minute, with balloons attached to the train, they rise into space and are "swallowed" by the sun. The travelers land with a crash. They are happy to be alive, but the heat is too much. All but one of the travelers are loaded into an ice box, but are suddenly frozen. The remaining traveler starts a fire to melt the ice, and moves the individuals over to a submarine. The submarine is launched off the sun, and falls into an ocean. A boiler problem causes the submarine to explode, and the travelers are thrown up into the air, and fall onto land. A grand rejoicing is held for the individuals.
An old woman sends a girl begging in the streets of Paris on a snowy evening. Callous revelers pass her by, and she falls asleep before one donor finally drops a golden Louis in her shoe. A gambler with a sure tip on roulette but no cash borrows the coin to win a fortune for the girl. She wakes, and the two miss each other wandering the streets until the gambler finds the girl dead.In summation, as baggage is checked in that baggage moves by itself to a room where it opens itself revealing lots of brushes that now move out. We next see a man and a woman sitting down before we see the man's boot get unbuckled by itself. With the boot off, a brush moves itself up and down on the front end. We next see the woman's coat come off by itself before her hair gets a thorough brushing-also by itself-before the hair ties itself into a bun. Then comes a scene of a man in front of a wall full of electrical switches. As he pulls one large switch down, we cut to a scene of various chairs and other furniture moving in chaotic ways as the short ends.Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde began with the raising of the stage curtain. Dr. Jekyll vows his undying love for Alice, a vicar's daughter, in her spacious garden. Suddenly, seized by his addiction to the chemical formula, Jekyll begins to convulse and distort himself into the villainous Mr. Hyde. He savagely attacks Alice, and when her father tries to intervene, Mr. Hyde takes great delight in slaughtering him. Later on, Jekyll transforms again, but haunted by visions of the gallows, Mr. Hyde takes a fatal dose of poison, killing both identities. In true theatrical tradition, the curtain then closes to an assumably appreciative audience.The film begins with Mr. Flip, played by Ben Turpin, in a general store, in which he flirts with the woman behind the counter, for which he is carried out of the building on a Hand truck. He travels to a Manicurist where he eventually gets the pointed end of a pair of scissor, sticking up out of his chair, when he sits down. He then meets a telephone operator at her desk, he calls her on a nearby phone, and she gets revenge by shocking him with electricity, through the phone, by turning her manual generator.{{cite web}} Next at a barber shop two women workers, get even with him by pasting his face with shaving cream and tossing him out of the building. At a bar he flirts with the bar attendants, until he gets sprayed with seltzer, by them and another patron. As the films climax he enters a restaurant and gets a pie in the face by the waitress.At a meeting of astronomers, their president proposes a trip to the Moon. After addressing some dissent, six brave astronomers agree to the plan. They build a space capsule in the shape of a bullet, and a huge cannon to shoot it into space. The astronomers embark and their capsule is fired from the cannon with the help of "marines", most of whom are portrayed as a bevy of beautiful women in sailors' outfits, while the rest are men. The Man in the Moon watches the capsule as it approaches, and it hits him in the eye. At this point, a Selenite  appears, but it is killed easily by an astronomer, as the creatures explode if they are hit with a hard force. More Selenites appear and it becomes increasingly difficult for the astronomers to destroy them as they are surrounded. The Selenites arrest the astronomers and bring them to their commander at the Selenite palace. An astronomer lifts the Chief Selenite off his throne and dashes him to the ground, exploding him.  The final sequence depicts a celebratory parade in honor of the travelers' return, including the unveiling of a commemorative statue. This ending sequence was considered lost until 2002, when a well preserved complete print was discovered at a barn in France. The extended version was screened at the Pordenone Silent Film Festival in 2003, and the sequence was included and restored in full for the 2012 Blu-Ray edition of the film.The film open in a town on the Mexican border. A poker game is going on in the local saloon. One of the players cheats and is shot dead by another of the players, a Mexican named Pedro. In the uproar that follows Pedro is wounded as he escapes from the saloon. The sheriff is called, who tracks Pedro to his home but Pedro kills the sherriff too. While Pedro hides, his wife Juanita, is arrested on suspcicion of murdering the sheriff. Pedro rescues her from the town jail and the two head for the Mexican border. Caught by the posse before they reach the border, Juanita is killed and the film ends with Pedro being arrested and taken back to town.A thug accosts a girl as she leaves her workplace but a man rescues her. The thug vows revenge and, with the help of two friends, attacks the girl and her rescuer again as they're going for a walk. This time they succeed in kidnapping the rescuer. The girl runs home and gets help from several neighbors. They track the ruffians down to a cabin in the mountains where the gang has trapped their victim and set the cabin on fire.
A one-armed beggar receives a new limb from a strange store that specializes in human appendages. The new arm has a mind of its own, though, and brings the man nothing but trouble.
