An old friend of the boys returns to town and tells them stories of getting rich out west. He proceeds to sell them a uranium mine and they head west. When they arrive, local thugs try to chase them off. When they find out the boys own a mine they decide to let them stay in town with the plans to follow them and take the mine from them. Eventually the boys defeat the thugs and find the uranium, only to discover that it is on an Indian reservation and doesn't belong to them.{{Expand section}} In late October 1943, a battalion of U.S. Marines have landed on Choiseul Island to create a diversion for the impending Allied invasion of Japanese held Bougainville Island. Four of them (Frank Lovejoy, Tony Curtis, Skip Homeier and [[Alan Wells  have been selected to do a reconnaissance patrol and find a French planter  and his daughter ([[Mary Murphy  who have sent a message to the Allies. The patrol must confirm that the message is authentic, and that the planter is still alive, who can give the Marines valuable information needed for a successful amphibious landing by the Allied forces.Following World War II, ex-Navy engineer Steve Martin  and his friend Johnny Gambi  come to Louisiana with dreams of wealth. They build an offshore oil drilling platform with the help of a large company, and find themselves in a lucrative business. However, local shrimp fishermen are hostile, feeling their livelihood is at risk. A further complication is the budding romance between Steve and the daughter of one of the shrimpers.The cow town of Spurline is effectively ruled by Virgil Renchler , owner of the Golden Empire ranch. One night, some of Renchler's hands beat a young laborer, Juan Martín, to death. The newly elected sheriff of Spurline, Ben Sadler , decides to investigate the matter. During his investigation, he must contend with Renchler's henchmen and the fierce opposition of the townspeople, who fear Spurline would be ruined without the Golden Empire's business.In the third Stooge adaptation of Pygmalion, the trio are repairmen who make a scene in the presence of two psychologists, Professors Quackenbush  and Sedletz . Quackenbush makes a bet with Sedletz that he can turn the boys into gentlemen through environment. Training is slow and painful for the professor, who pulls his hair out in disgust. The Stooges do have the opportunity to flirt with the professor's assistant , however, while learning table etiquette. Finally, the Stooges will decide the wager by their behavior at a fancy society party. The party, naturally, goes awry. Joe greets the Countess Spritzwasser  by kissing her hand, and biting off the diamond in her ring. Realizing this, Moe and Larry take Joe to a secluded area to lecture him, only to find he has swiped a load of silverware. Joe then grabs a pie from a pastry table, and tries to eat it whole. Moe sees this, swipes the pie, and pushes Joe out of the way. Seeing another guest, Mrs. Smythe-Smythe , approaching, Moe tosses the pie straight up — to which it attaches itself to the ceiling. Seeing that he can barely get a sentence out, she sympathetically comments, "young man, you act as if you have the Sword of Damocles hanging over your head." Moe replies that Mrs. Smythe-Smythe is a psychic and flees, to which the pie comes crashing down on the society matron. This sparks off a massive pie melee that takes no prisoners.The film retells the story of the Trojan War, albeit with some major changes from the Iliad's storyline: Paris of Troy  sails to Sparta to secure a peace treaty between the two powerful city-states. His ship is forced to return to Troy in a storm after he has been swept overboard on the shore of Sparta, but Paris is found by Helen, Queen of Sparta , with whom he falls in love. He goes to the palace where he finds Helen's husband, King Menelaus , Agamemnon , Odysseus , Achilles  and many other Greek kings debating whether to go to war with Troy. Menelaus sees that Helen and Paris are in love and, pretending friendship, plots Paris' death. Warned by Helen, Paris flees and, after they are both nearly caught by the Spartans, takes Helen with him to Troy. Under the pretense of helping Menelaus regain his honor, the Greeks unite, and the siege of Troy begins. Much blood is shed in the long ordeal, with the Trojans blaming their plight on Paris and Helen until it turns out that the Greeks are solely after Troy's riches, not Helen. The siege culminates in Greek victory through the ruse of the legendary Trojan Horse. While trying to flee, Helen and Paris are cornered by Menelaus. Paris faces the Spartan king in single combat, but just as he wins the upper hand he is stabbed from behind, denying him a fair trial by arms. Helen is forced to return with Menelaus, but she is serene in the knowledge that she will someday be reunited with Paris. This project makes several departures from the original story, including showing Paris as a hero and great leader, and most of the Greek lords as treacherous and opportunistic pirates who are using Helen's flight as an excuse to win the treasures of Troy.A few months before the D-Day landings during World War II, the British government decides to launch a campaign of disinformation; spreading a rumour that the landings just might take place at a location other than Normandy. The details of the operation  are handed to two intelligence officers, Colonel Logan  and Major Harvey . They are initially unable to devise such a plan - but one night, Harvey sees an actor at a London theatre, who looks just like General Bernard Montgomery. Logan and Harvey discover that the actor is M. E. Clifton James , a lieutenant stationed in Leicester with the Royal Army Pay Corps and that he was a professional actor in peacetime. He is called to London, on the pretext that he is to make a test for an army film, and a plan is devised that he should tour North Africa, impersonating "Monty". "Jimmy" as Harvey calls him, is doubtful that he can carry off an impersonation of Montgomery, especially with his air of command, but with time running short and no options open to him, he agrees. Disguised as a corporal, he spends some days at Montgomery's headquarters and learns to copy the general's mannerisms and style. After an interview with the general himself, he is sent off to tour North Africa. Accompanied by Harvey, who has been "promoted" to brigadier for his cover as Montgomery's aide-de-camp, "Jimmy" arrives at Gibraltar, where the governor, who has known the general for years, can't get over the likeness. To further foster the deception, a local businessman and known German agent, Karl Nielson , is invited to dinner; knowing that he will spread the information. This happens quickly and their aeroplane is  attacked on leaving Gibraltar. James and Harvey tour several places in North Africa and visit the troops. With only a few days to go before the landings, it is learned that the Germans have indeed been fooled and have transferred large numbers of troops away from Normandy. His job done, James is put into "cold storage" at a heavily guarded villa on the coast. But the Germans have been fooled more than Harvey realises. A team of German commandos are landed by submarine to kidnap "Monty". They kill his guards and are ready to embark with James, but Harvey gets wind of the kidnap and foils it at the last moment. They return quietly to London.In the Oregon Territory prior to the American Civil War, Chief Mike  has fought the US Army and the white settlers to a standstill. As a result the post commander Major Wallach  is replaced by Major Archer . On the way to the fort, Major Archer's troop of cavalry accompanied by two field guns spot an ambush by Chief Mike's Indians. Major Archer orders one of the guns to fire knocking down a tree and panicking the "braves" who suffer no casualties. On arrival at the Fort, Major Wallach has allowed the use of his barracks to recruit more Irregulars for Stacey Wyatt who accompany the regulars on their military expeditions. As the recruiting involves free alcohol and kisses by women to the volunteers  Major Archer is furious and immediately takes command of the post to reinstall military discipline, retrain the men and plan another expedition. No one is more outraged than Sergeant Major McClain's  daughter Brett  who thinks Archer inhuman. An emissary of Chief Mike comes to arrange a meeting between the new commander to discuss peace but Major Archer initially refuses until orders come for him to negotiate with the Indians. The Major and Chief meet with each respecting each other and arranging a thirty day truce with the Indians and whites not crossing either side of the Rogue River. Wyatt is secretly employed to keep the Indian wars going by a consortium of the territory's business community  who oppose Statehood that would ruin their profits. Wyatt tricks Sgt Major McClain into breaking the treaty by telling him the Indians have attacked a white settlement leading to all but McClain killed after they attack an Indian settlement.The park ranger at Niagara Falls boasts about his impeccable record of enforcing the prohibition related to going over the falls in a barrel. Woody is in the crowd and instantly decides to attempt it. The ranger tries endlessly to prevent Woody from succeeding, but ends up in a barrel going over the falls himself each and every time, much to the delight of onlooking tourists, who cheer loudly. Eventually, the ranger takes his district with him. The end result has the entire crew going over the falls in barrels. Finally, Woody joins the ranger, dressed up as a police officer, and gives him a ticket for going down the falls in barrel.Tom and Betsy Rath live in a rundown house in Westport, Connecticut around 1953 . They have three television-addicted kids  and have money problems. Tom is 33 years old, a Harvard graduate. He barely survived as an Army paratroop officer during World War II, having fought in both the European and Pacific combat theaters . Tom has haunting flashbacks of the affair as well as his combat experiences—these would almost certainly be diagnosed as PTSD today. He killed 17 men in combat. His selfish and materialistic stay-at-home wife knows only that Tom is somehow "changed" since the war. She feels his job with a Manhattan charitable organization pays too little, so she and a fellow train commuter urge him to interview for a job at a New York-based television network. Tom lands a public relations job, working for Ralph Hopkins, the top man at the network, an empire-builder surrounded by politicking yes-men. Hopkins is to propose the establishment of national mental health services to a group of physicians and offer his own prestige and network toward that end. Tom must solve how his boss can best present the proposal so that the learned doctors will rise in unison and appoint Hopkins to spearhead the campaign. Hired on a six-month probationary basis, Tom reports to a humorless game-player who rejects five different drafts of the speech and ends up substituting one of his own. Hopkins is satisfied, but Tom persuades him that the approach is all wrong, that it misrepresents Hopkins' qualifications to head the campaign. Tom's approach is more sensible; Hopkins is impressed. Tom reminds Hopkins of his own son, who was killed in combat. There are a number of subplots:  The caretaker of Tom's late grandmother tries to fraudulently inherit her home;  Hopkins' estrangement from his wife and daughter ; and  Tom's adulterous behavior during the war and an out-of-wedlock son conceived in Italy, whose mother suddenly contacts him to seek monetary support at a most inconvenient time. With no understanding of the horrors of war, Betsy goes berserk on hearing of this secret, but eventually calms down and understands mutual emotional support—not just mutual ambition—binding wife and husband. In the end, seeing the example of how his boss's marriage and family life have been ruined by overwork, Tom turns down a high-pressure position in order to work normal hours and spend more time at home.The Stooges meet up with eccentric Professor A.K. Rimple  and his daughter  who ask the trio to help them with a space mission. The mission lands on the planet Sunev , where the Stooges are taken in by three attractive female aliens. At first, sparks fly  when the girls kiss the boys. But then the ladies turn cannibalistic, and are about the suck the Stooges' blood. The boys are able to escape, however, as a huge lizard appears on the horizon, causing the women to run away. The three jump back in the rocket ship, knocking the Professor and his daughter out cold, and fly back to Earth. They are then shown relating the story of their adventure to an assembled group. When they finish, the "Liars Club" presents them with the award for being the biggest liars in the world.In 1945, John J. Macreedy , who lacks the use of his left arm, steps off the Southern Pacific passenger train at the desert hamlet of Black Rock. It is the first time the train has stopped there in four years. Macreedy is looking for a man named Komoko, but the few residents are inexplicably hostile. The young hotel desk clerk, Pete Wirth ([[John Ericson , claims he has no vacant rooms. The newcomer is none-too-subtly threatened by local tough Hector David . Reno Smith , the town's unofficial leader, informs Macreedy that Komoko, as a Japanese-American, was interned during World War II. Certain that something is wrong, Macreedy sees the town sheriff, Tim Horn , but the alcoholic lawman is clearly afraid of Smith. The veterinarian and undertaker, Doc Velie , advises Macreedy to leave town immediately. Smith lets slip that Komoko is dead.  Pete's sister, Liz , rents Macreedy a Jeep. Macreedy drives to nearby Adobe Flats, where Komoko lived. He finds the homestead burned to the ground. On the way back, Coley Trimble  tries to run him off the road. When Smith later asks, Macreedy informs him he lost the use of his left arm fighting in Italy. Macreedy tells him he found wildflowers at the Komoko place, leading him to suspect that a body is buried underneath. Smith reveals that he is virulently anti-Japanese; he tried to enlist the day after the attack on Pearl Harbor, but was rejected. Macreedy tries to telephone the state police, but Pete refuses to put the call through. Doc Velie admits that something terrible happened four years ago and that Smith has everyone too terrified to speak up. Velie offers Macreedy his hearse to leave town, but it will not start. Then Hector comes over and rips out the distributor cap and spark plug wires. Macreedy dictates a telegram to Hastings  addressed to the state police. While Macreedy is having lunch, Trimble picks a fight, but Macreedy uses judo and karate to beat him up and knock him out. Macreedy tells Smith that he knows Smith killed Komoko and that he was too cowardly to do it alone, so he involved Hector, Pete, and Coley. Macreedy heads to the hotel lobby, hoping that Smith and his men won't dare attack him in such a public place. Smith and his henchmen are already there. Hastings tries to give Smith a telegram, but Macreedy snatches it away and discovers that it is his own unsent message. Macreedy and Doc Velie demand that Sheriff Horn do something. When Horn tries to confront Smith, however, Smith takes his badge and gives it to Hector. Hector tears up the telegram. After Smith and Hector leave, Macreedy reveals that the loss of his arm had left him wallowing in self-pity, but Smith's attempt to kill him has given him strength again. Macreedy finally learns what happened after revealing that he came to Black Rock to give Komoko his son's medal. Komoko's son was a soldier serving in Italy and died in combat trying to save Macreedy. Komoko leased some farmland from Smith, who was sure there was no water there. However, Komoko dug a well deep enough to find water, and installed a windmill there. After Smith was turned down for enlistment after Pearl Harbor, he and the other men spent the day drinking, then decided to scare Komoko. The old man barricaded himself inside his home, but the men set the place on fire. When Komoko emerged ablaze, Smith shot him. Pete lures the watching Hector into the hotel office, where Doc Velie knocks him out. Liz drives Macreedy out of town in her Jeep, but stops in a canyon. Macreedy realizes he has been betrayed. When Smith starts firing at him, Macreedy shelters behind the Jeep. Liz rushes to Smith despite Macreedy's warning. Smith tells her she has to die along with the rest of his accomplices. He shoots her in the back when she tries to run. Macreedy finds a bottle and fills it with gasoline from the jeep's fuel line, creating a Molotov cocktail. When Smith climbs down for a better shot, Macreedy throws it, hitting the rock next to Smith and setting him on fire. Macreedy drives up to the town jail with the injured Smith and Liz's body. Velie and Horn rush out; they had mustered up enough courage to jail Hector David and Coley Trimble. The state police are called in. As Macreedy is leaving, Doc Velie requests Komoko's medal to help Black Rock heal. Macreedy gives it to him just before boarding the train.Garfield plays Harry Morgan, a penniless fishing hire proprietor whose business is on the skids and whose family is feeling the economic pinch. He begins to work with a shady lawyer, Duncan , who persuades him to run illegal immigrants into California. Harry also begins a flirtation with Leona Charles . When his plan with Duncan goes wrong, Harry comes even more under the influence of the lawyer, who blackmails him into helping the escape of a gang of crooks, who pull a racetrack heist, by using his fishing boat to get away from authorities. Harry convinces himself that his illegal activities will financially help his family. His wife, Lucy , suspects Harry is breaking the law and urges him to stop for the sake of the family. Harry refuses and walks out. As Harry waits for Duncan and the crooks on his boat, Harry's partner, Wesley Park , arrives. Not wanting Wesley around when the crooks arrive, Harry tries to send him on an errand. The crooks arrive before Wesley leaves, and kill him. Harry is horrified, but is forced at gunpoint to transport the crooks out to open sea without drawing the attention of the Coast Guard. Harry also learns that Duncan was killed during the escape from the heist. Wesley's body is dumped overboard along with Harry's only firearm. Harry uses a ploy to access a gun and kills all the crooks in a dramatic shoot out. Harry, however, is critically wounded. Authorities find his boat the next day and tow it to port. Lucy rushes to Harry's side and tries to convince Harry to allow his arm to be amputated to save his life. Harry reaffirms his love for Lucy and is taken to the hospital. In the final scene, Wesley's son, who was briefly introduced earlier in the film, stands alone on the dock looking around for his father. In the novel Morgan lives with a prostitute and is killed in the end.Homer Flagg is a railroad worker in the small town of Desert Hole, New Mexico. His big dream in life is to visit New York City while he is young. One day he finds an abandoned automobile at an old atomic proving ground. His doctor and best friend, Steve Harris, diagnoses him with radiation poisoning and gives Homer three weeks to live. A reporter for a New York newspaper, Wally Cook, hears of Homer's plight and convinces her editor, Oliver Stone, to provide an all-expenses paid trip to fulfil Homer's lifelong fantasy of seeing New York. Steve, however, realizes that he made an error and Homer is only suffering from a sinus condition. Steve agrees to keep this new diagnosis a secret after Homer begs him ... particularly after meeting the attractive reporter. Steve announces that only he can provide medical treatment to Homer and must accompany him on the trip. New York embraces Homer and he becomes a celebrity, with everyone following his every move in the paper. Homer even makes plans to marry Wally, despite the fact that she has fallen for Steve. Meanwhile, editor Stone is anxious for Homer to die. Every day it is costing the newspaper money to support the dying man's extravagant requests, which includes ordering 3,000 shrimp cocktails for his hotel suite. Stone hires three specialists to examine Homer, who is given a clean bill of health. To escape the fix that they have gotten themselves into, Homer fakes suicide. The newspaper gets the exclusive story. Wally gets married to Steve, and the two guys get new jobs in New York as street sweepers.An ambitious, historic attempt to explore and document an untamed American frontier unfolds in this rousing adventure drama. In 1803, Meriwether Lewis and William Clark, with President Thomas Jefferson's blessing, embarked on the government-sponsored Lewis & Clark Expedition – an attempt to discover a water route connecting St. Louis, Missouri, with the Pacific Ocean. Their trek takes them through the magnificent, danger-filled territory of the Pacific Northwest, with guidance from the Shoshone maiden Sacagawea.The film follows Papashvily from his arrival and initial interview on Ellis Island, through his early jobs on New York's bustling Lower East Side. His friend, Nuri , who had arrived in New York earlier and speaks English, leads the way, telling Giorgi that he'll help him get an outdoor job with plenty of fresh air. Instead, they find themselves carrying buckets and pouring hot tar on rooftops. Giorgi, who didn't speak a word of English when he arrived, works diligently to learn the language, practicing troublesome consonants  in the mirror. He also shares a house with fellow Georgians. Cited by the police with some of his fellow countrymen for picking flowers in Central Park, he refuses to pay the fine because he didn't pick the flowers  and it would wrong to admit to a crime he did not commit. Appearing before the Judge on principle, he explains what happened. The Judge, taken by his honesty and obvious character, finds him not guilty after the arresting police officer admits that he didn't actually see Giorgi pick any flowers. The Judge shakes Giorgi's hand, thanking him for brightening his courtroom. Giorgi has also caught the eye of the pretty court reporter, Helen Watson , who is equally moved by Giorgi's simple but eloquent defense. She invites him over to her house because her hobby is recording folk music and she wants Giorgi to identify some music. It turns out that Giorgi has a pretty good voice as well. A fast but proper friendship develops between Helen and Giorgi. Helen has also recorded another musician who turns out to be Georgi's "Uncle John"  a friend from the old country and now a chef in New York, who Giorgi has been looking for since his arrival. Giorgi moves into Uncle John's house which he shares with a colorful group of fellow Georgian emigres. Giorgi dreams of becoming a U.S. citizen and noticing the hints from Helen , also dreams of marrying her. But he lacks a bit of self-confidence in the area of romance. Meanwhile, a few comic scenes ensue, notably one about an expanding loaf of dough, which Nuri understandably mispronounces as "duff"  There are further scenes of immigrant life. Just when Giorgi is about to reveal his feelings for Helen, at the behest of Uncle John, she announces that she needs to go to California to look after a sick aunt who raised her. She promises to be back shortly. She leaves Giorgi with a plant to take care of for her. Weeks turn into months and Uncle John encourages Giorgi to go out to California. When he hesitates, Uncle John quits his job at the restaurant and announces he is going to California and asks Giorgi if he would like to come. Soon the whole household picks up and decamps to Southern California. There, they connect with a reclusive fellow Georgian. Meanwhile, something appears to have changed with Helen, who has taken a job. Giorgi purchases a house and farm he can't afford and becomes an Orange tree farmer. He still hasn't asked Helen to marry him. She confesses to her bedridden aunt that she doesn't feel a cold chill down her back with Giorgi and doesn't want to marry anyone until she is sure. The aunt discourages Helen's romanticism, telling her that she can get that chill from a cold shower. A past romance is discussed, which apparently didn't end well. A frost comes and threatens to ruin the orange crop. Helen rushes out to the farm and orders everyone to stop standing around and to light fires to keep the crop warm. Giorgi, deeply moved, asks Helen to marry him. She immediately says yes. Nuri and his friends arrive in a car from New York and Giorgi reveals the news. Uncle John becomes ill and a judge gives him a citizenship test and he becomes a citizen, dying shortly thereafter.In the 1830s in the Rocky Mountains, fur trapper Flint Mitchell  meets at the summer "Rendezvous" with other mountain men, cashing in his furs, drinking, and enjoying contests among his friends. He organizes a hunting "brigade" into the beaver-rich Blackfoot territory, buying horses and recruiting trappers, despite protests from his Scottish friend and former trading partner, Brecan , who lives among the Blackfoot and warns him that the land belongs to them. Flint outbids Brecan for Kamiah , the granddaughter of Blackfoot medicine man Bear Ghost and adopted daughter of a Nez Perce chief, Looking Glass . Brecan wants to return her to the Blackfoot, to promote peace between the tribes, while Flint wants to marry Kamiah and ensure the brigade's safety. Pierre , a French Canadian trapper, and Captain Humberstone Lyon , another Scotsman, who fought in the Battle of Waterloo, join Flint on the dangerous expedition. Kamiah successfully guides Flint and his men on their trek through the high passes filled with crippling snow drifts and delivers them to the Blackfoot territory, where they build a stockade. Flint narrowly escapes capture and death by Ironshirt , a young Blackfoot prince and war chief, who kills Baptiste DuNord, one of Flint's best trappers. Ironshirt steals the brigade's horses, but Flint impresses Bear Ghost ([[Jack Holt , who orders them returned. Though he marries Kamiah for reasons other than love, and cannot speak her language, Flint falls in love with her. As Flint and Kamiah grow closer, Flint and Bear Ghost become good friends. Bear Ghost prevents Ironshirt from harming Flint and his men, but catastrophe strikes when Roy DuNord, another of Flint's men, kills Bear Ghost to avenge his brother's death. Although Brecan kills Roy, and Flint sinks into a grieving depression over the death of Bear Ghost, Ironshirt succeeds Bear Ghost as chief and resumes his campaign to drive the white trappers out of his country. In the spring, Kamiah gives birth to a boy, Chip. On the way to Rendezvous, the brigade is attacked by a large war party under Ironshirt and Kamiah is killed. With Chip strapped to its back, Kamiah's horse bolts during the attack and is chased by Ironshirt, intent on killing the boy. Flint manages to kill Ironshirt, however, and rescue his son. As the years pass, Flint takes Chip to live in the Blackfoot camp, where, Flint believes, Kamiah would have wanted him. Although Flint intends to have the boy formally educated in the East, Chip persuades him year after year to postpone his schooling, learning the ways of the mountains from his father.A group of scientists explores Siberia to find red-trimmed butterflies, but not allowed by the natives to go into a lake named Kitakami in the mountain because they believe it was the home of their mountain god: Jigoku-no-Sanjin, or Varan. They belittled the natives' story and get into the lake, but a roar was heard and they scream as green light shines and an explosion was heard. Further expeditions were sent, the "Mystery of the Centuries" group, was dispatched. But the groups also disappeared, and so, only one of them was left. He was Kenji Kogoro, a member of a scientific team. Actually, when he was still with his friends, a giant flying monster named Varan emerged from Lake Kitakami and attacked them. Kenji was the only one who survived the attack and only suffered a sprinkled arm. He was rescued by the rescue team send to Siberia to find the team. But, only Kenji who was left. Kenji, holding the photo of the monster and shows it to the government. The government knows it wasn't a joke and he gets ready if Varan attacks Japan. And it was right, Varan was reported by the local fishers who is fishing ashore. In the night, Varan surfaces and wreaks havoc. Varan was immune to gun and tanks, even electric fences can't stop him! Everything were destroyed, as everything were devastated heavily by the ferocious Varan. But Kenji knows what to do: drop bombs in Varan and he will take it. The bomb was set and they drop it, and Varan eats it. Three more bombs were drop and Varan eats them all too. Kenji says: "Eat that, fool." and Varan returns to the sea. They detonate the first bomb from Varan's body and Varan roars in the surface. They detonate both the second and third bomb, causing Varan to blow out. After that, they finally declare that humans are win, and Varan was dead. Everyone was cheering after the chaos, and as morning comes, human wins again and rise as the victor, once again.In New Guinea, an expedition led by Australian District Officer Steve McAllister heads up the Sepik River to a valley where the adventurer Sharkeye Kelly has discovered oil. The party includes United Nations doctor Louis Dumarcet and crocodile hunter Jeff Claton. Louise takes blood samples from small children and is attacked by a witchdoctor. The expedition risks being massacred but the children recover in time.In May 1959, in the town of Cape Anne, Maine, a foul-up by the Eastern & Portland Railroad  results in the death of 300 lobsters shipped by Jane Osgood . She gets her lawyer and friend, George Denham , to go after the E&P to pay damages after her customer, the Marshall Town Country Club, refuses all future orders. In the E&P office in New York City, Harry Foster Malone  learns about the Osgood lawsuit. Due to the budget cuts Malone instated, there was no station agent at Marshall Town to receive the lobsters. Malone sends employees Crawford Sloan  and Wilbur Peterson  to Cape Anne to deal with the situation. The two attorneys offer $700, but Jane turns it down because the loss to her business reputation is more than that. Jane wins in court, but E&P appeals the case to the state Supreme Court in Augusta, Maine. George files a writ of execution to force payment and take possession of the train, Old 97, in lieu of payment. Jane is interviewed by local newspaper reporter Matilda Runyon, who then calls the Daily Mirror in New York. Top reporter Larry Hall ([[Steve Forrest  is sent to Cape Anne for the story. Television stations also want to interview Jane. Malone retaliates by charging Jane rent for the siding on which the train is sitting. Jane appears on ABC, NBC, and CBS. Fearful of bad publicity, Malone finally gives in and cancels the rent, but gives Jane the train. Meanwhile, George becomes increasingly jealous when he sees Larry is attracted to Jane so he proposes marriage to her. Back in Cape Anne, during a town meeting, Jane learns that Malone has ordered all his trains to bypass the town and has given Jane 48 hours to remove Old 97. Jane runs away and George scolds the townspeople for turning against her. Realizing that Old 97 is just the way to deliver the lobsters, Jane and George persuade everybody to fill up the train's tender with coal from their homes. George recruits his uncle Otis, a retired E&P engineer, to engineer the train. Old 97 sets off with Jane, her children, George, and the lobsters on board. Malone does everything possible to delay them. Jane becomes upset at the roundabout route Malone is forcing them to take. Eventually, the coal runs out, stopping Old 97 and blocking traffic. Just then, Malone arrives by helicopter. Jane scolds him for his underhanded actions. Malone finally agrees to Jane's demands. Jane and George tell him to come along so he cannot cause any more trouble. He finally shows his good side by helping shovel coal. Larry and a photographer are in Marshall Town when the train arrives. George kisses Jane in front of Larry and she agrees to marry George. After the wedding, as George is being sworn in as the new first selectman, a badly needed fire engine pulls into town, a present from Malone.In Bruxelles, two rival gangs of gangsters confront each other. One is led by Vicky, propritor of a night club on a barge, and the other by Bug who want to reign over the lucrative night life business. Vicky and her gang, who are planning a bank raid, are going to see their plans confounded by Bug. In effect, he is being manipulated by a police officer who forces him to help break up a drug trafficking deal in return for keeping his residence in Belgium. Bug and Yoko will strongly compromise the bank raid, believing that is linked to the drugs.Federal Communications Commission  investigators arrive in the San Fernando Valley after what appears to be a UFO crashes, causing massive interference with teleradio transmissions. During their investigation they receive witness reports of what appears to be a man dressed in a bizarre outfit. Their investigation uncovers that this is a being from outer space who is invisible. They start a massive manhunt, causing a public panic over the invisible alien running loose.An obsessive lawman  who works for the state chases an escaped fugitive  through the Louisiana bayou.Gar Davis has to get out of Largo in a hurry because a man's been killed. He comes across a man in Comanche territory killed by an arrow. Gar takes the man's jacket, then shoves the corpse over a cliff, hoping the posse pursuing him will think he's the one who is dead. Trying to steal a horse, Gar's face is grazed by a bullet shot by young Chad Grey, whose mother Celia tends to the stranger's wound. Indians attack the house. Gar helps fend them off, after which he and the Greys take off on horseback toward the safety of Fort Dobbs. On the trail, an outlaw called Clett kills a Comanche who's about to bushwhack Gar, saving his life. Gar doesn't trust him, though, because Clett is carrying cases of rifles that he could be selling to the Indians rather than to soldiers at the fort. Clett tries to take advantage of Celia, but even though Gar comes to her aid, Celia no longer trusts him because she's found the jacket Gar stole. It belonged to her husband, so Celia is now convinced that Gar murdered him, making her a widow. Fort Dobbs' soldiers are all dead. A sheriff appreciates Gar's help fighting the Indians, but lets him know he must place Gar under arrest. Gar claims he killed the Largo man in self-defense after an argument. Permitted to ride to Santa Fe to get help, Gar ends up killing Clett for the rifles, bringing them back to save the fort and to win the widow's trust.On 6 September 1950, an exhausted platoon of the 24th Infantry Division is cut off. In addition to losing radio contact, the platoon is harassed by unseen North Korean infiltrators who silently kill the Americans and take their weapons. Platoon commander Lieutenant Benson  has only vague instructions to reach a certain hill to link up with American forces. The patrol stops a jeep driven by Sergeant "Montana"  and shell shocked passenger "the Colonel" ([[Robert Keith  from the First Cavalry Division. The Colonel is unable to speak and is tied to his seat. After the Battle of the Nakdong River, where "our men fell like rain", the tough experienced Montana decided he and his Colonel, whom he treats like his father, have had enough of the war. Benson commandeers their jeep for his platoon's equipment and the battle-fatigued Corporal Zwickley. The platoon makes its way towards the hill. Montana disobeys Benson by instinctively shooting a surrendering North Korean sniper, who turns out to have a concealed weapon inside his hat. Sergeant Killian is killed while covering the rear after absentmindedly filling his helmet net with flowers. Montana takes his place and feigns fatigue, luring the infiltrators into the open, where he kills them. The cynical Montana transforms the platoon back into a military formation while also curing Zwickley's neurosis by slapping him around. The platoon successfully carries on through sniper attack, artillery barrage, and land mines. When they reach the hill, they find it held by the North Koreans. Montana shoots three enemy soldiers disguised as Americans after a North Korean prisoner is used as bait and killed by his own men. Benson and his men launch an attack, but Montana and the Colonel sit it out. The Colonel comes to his senses, joins the assault, and is killed. Shamed, Montana joins Benson. They use grenades and a flamethrower to destroy a pillbox and machine gun nest. Only Benson, Montana, and Sergeant Riordan survive. When American reinforcements arrive, Montana produces a container of medals that the Colonel meant to award his men. Benson calls the roll as Montana throws the medals to the dead on the slope of the hill, while Elmer Bernstein's title song plays in the background.During the Franco-Mexican War, ex-Confederate soldier Ben Trane  travels to Mexico seeking a job as a mercenary. He falls in with Joe Erin , a lethal gunslinger who heads a gang of cutthroats . They are recruited by Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico  to help escort Countess Duvarre  to Vera Cruz. Trane and Erin discover that the countess and Marquis Henri de Labordere  are secretly transporting a large cache of gold intended for the French army. All concerned, including Juarista secret agent Nina , conspire to steal it for their own purposes. Also involved in the mix is Morris Ankrum as a heroic Juarista leader. In the end, Trane and Erin face off in a showdown that concludes with Erin's death.The story follows a group of cadets through Air Force pilot training during the Korean War. After primary training at Randolph Field, they move to Williams Air Force Base for advanced training on jets. There Russ meets and falls in love with Janet, the estranged wife one of the instructors. The rivalry puts his future as a fighter pilot in jeopardy.Milford Farnsworth  is a bumbling insurance agent who unknowingly sells a life insurance policy to the outlaw Jesse James . Farnsworth is sent out West to protect the insurance company's investment by "protecting" James. James has his own plans to have Farnsworth killed while dressed as the outlaw, so that he and his soon to be "widow" Cora Lee Collins  can collect on the $100,000 insurance policy. Farnsworth avoids several attempts on his life while he and Collins fall in love with each other. After the last attempt is made on his life, Farnsworth impersonates the justice of the peace who is supposed to marry James and Collins. When Farnsworth and Collins make a run for it, they end up in a gun battle with the James Gang where several Western heroes make their cameos to surreptitiously help Farnsworth. In the end Farnsworth is victorious, marries Collins, and becomes president of the insurance company.Lou Francis  and Bud Alexander  have just graduated from a private detective school. Tommy Nelson , a middleweight boxer, comes to them with their first case. Tommy recently escaped from jail, after being accused of murdering his manager, and asks the duo to accompany him on a visit to his fiancée, Helen Gray . He wants her uncle, Dr. Philip Gray , to inject him with a special serum he has developed which will render Tommy invisible, and hopes to use the newfound invisibility to investigate his manager's murder and proved his innocence. Dr. Gray adamantly refuses, arguing that the serum is still unstable, but as the police arrive Tommy injects himself with it and successfully becomes invisible. Detective Roberts  questions Dr. Gray and Helen while Bud and Lou search for Tommy. Helen and Tommy convince Bud and Lou to help them seek the real killer, after Tommy explains that the motive for the murder occurred after he refused to "throw" a fight, knocking his opponent, Rocky Hanlon , out cold. Morgan , the promoter who fixed the fight, ordered Tommy's manager beaten to death while framing Tommy for the crime. In order to investigate undercover, Lou poses as a boxer, with Bud as his manager. They go to Stillwell's gym where Lou gets in the ring with Rocky Hanlon. Tommy, still invisible, gets into the ring with them and again knocks out Hanlon with the illusion that Lou did it, and an official match is arranged. Morgan urges Lou to throw the fight, but when the match occurs , poor Hanlon is knocked out yet again. Morgan plans Bud's murder which is thwarted by Tommy, who unfortunately is wounded in the battle and begins to bleed badly. The protagonists rush to the hospital where a blood transfusion is arranged between Lou and Tommy. During the transfusion, Tommy becomes visible again. Unfortunately, some of Tommy's blood has apparently entered Lou,who briefly turns invisible, only to reappear with his legs inexplicably on backwards.Rocky Jones attempts to save the inhabitants of a planet about collide with a moon. The empress of the planet, however, is suspicious.The story is about Ulysses' efforts to return to his home after the end of the Trojan war, and the adventures that befall him.Air Force flyers Rick Williams  and Mike Nolan ([[Dick Wesson  attempt to meet Nell Wayne , a  film star performing in a star-studded musical in San Francisco. Rick and Nell were both from the same small town, but had never met. Mike attempts to convince both the staff and cast members at the theater that Rick and Nell are best friends and are extremely close. Ruth Roman takes pity on them and takes them to meet Nell. However, the men first meet with Doris Day and Gordon MacRae, who are rehearsing the song "You're Gonna Lose Your Gal." When they find that Nell isn't there, and that if she were, she would reveal that she didn't know the boys, Mike claims that they are both shipping out to the Korean front that night. This makes Ruth and Doris feel guilty, and they invite the boys to lunch. When Nell does arrive, not knowing him, she attempts to make their visit brief. Doris and Ruth had already guessed that the two didn't know each other, but still let him meet Nell. Waiting for Nell had made the boys late for their bus to return to base so Doris, Ruth, and Nell offer to drive them back to Travis Air Force base, all the while wearing fur coats and ball gowns for that night's movie premiere. Instead of being shipped to the front lines in Korea however, the boys operate routine transport flights to Honolulu, Hawaii. While at the base they go to the transport terminal, where many of the soldiers are waiting for their flights to be called. Doris gets on stage to dance and sing "S'Wonderful" while Nell and Ruth go out to the runway to kiss Rick goodbye. Nell gives Rick a good-luck charm from her charm bracelet. As they watch the plane take off, their driver, the colonel, suggests that they greet some wounded soldiers at the hospital, where Doris sings a medley of "You Oughta be in Pictures" & "You Do Something To Me." After making their appearance at the Air Force Base, the three ladies return to San Francisco to perform in the show . When a plane with wounded soldiers arrives with Rick and Mike in it, unwounded, and fresh from Honolulu, Nell is furious for Rick lying to her about going to the Korean front lines. However, she keeps up the love act for gossip columnist Louella Parsons which allows the "Operation Starlift" celebrities to perform at Travis Air Force base. The next morning they sing and dance while the planes leave ("[[Liza . That night the cast performs for the base . The next day the Warner Bros. president arranges for several other Warner Bros. actors to perform at the base that night. While visiting her parents Nell finds that Rick's parents are at her home...and so is Rick. After dinner the Waynes take the Williams out for a movie leaving Nell and Rick in the house alone together. They quarrel and Rick gives Nell back the charm from her bracelet. The next morning when the Williams arrive, Nell finds that Rick was sent overseas ahead of schedule. She rushes to the base but his flight had already left. Meanwhile, the Starlift, the plane containing the movie stars, had arrived, containing Virginia Mayo and Phil Harris ("I May Be Wrong", "Noche Caribe . Phil Harris purposely loses $750 to a soldier while playing Gin Rummy before performing "Look Out, Stranger, I'm a Texas Ranger." Rick's plane arrives but he runs away from the hangar where Nell is waiting. While writing a letter to be given to him, Nell sees Rick enter the cafeteria and runs in after him. Without him realizing it she takes over for the waitress and makes him the chocolate malt he orders, just the way she did back in Youngstown, where her family had a malt shop. They drink the malt together, and they forgive each other. The next day, when Rick is finally shipped out, Nell is there to kiss him goodbye.The story is set in a then-future 1964, in the months following World War III. The conflict has devastated the northern hemisphere, polluting the atmosphere with nuclear fallout and killing all life. While the bombs were confined to the northern hemisphere, air currents are slowly carrying the fallout south. The only areas still habitable are in the far southern hemisphere, like Australia. From Australia, survivors detect an incomprehensible Morse code signal from San Diego in the United States. In the hope that someone is still alive back home, the last American nuclear submarine, USS Sawfish, under Royal Australian Navy command, is ordered to sail north from Melbourne to try to make contact with the signal sender. The captain, Dwight Towers , leaves behind his good friend, the alcoholic Moira Davidson , despite his feelings of guilt about the deaths of his wife and children in Connecticut. Towers refuses to admit they are dead and continues to behave accordingly. The Australian government arranges for its citizens to receive suicide pills and injections, so that they may end things quickly before there is prolonged suffering from the inevitable radiation sickness. An Australian naval officer, Peter Holmes , and his naive and childish wife, Mary , who is in denial about the impending disaster, have a baby daughter. Assigned to travel with the American submarine for several weeks, Peter tries to explain to Mary how to euthanize their baby and kill herself with the lethal pills in case he's not yet home when the time comes. Mary reacts violently at the prospect of killing her daughter and herself. One scientist's theory is that the radiation level near the Arctic Ocean could be lower than that found at mid-northern hemisphere. If so, this would indicate the radiation could disperse before reaching the southern hemisphere. This was to be explored along with the submarine's main mission. After sailing to Point Barrow, Alaska, they determine that radiation levels are, on the contrary, intensifying. The submarine next stops at San Francisco. The views through the periscope show no signs of life and no damage to buildings. One crewman jumps ship to spend his last days in his hometown. After attempting to convince the crewman to return, Towers accepts his decision. The crewman is last seen fishing as the Sawfish submerges. Sawfish then travels to an abandoned oil refinery in San Diego, where they discover that despite the fact that everyone is dead, the hydroelectric power station is still operating. The ship's communications officer is sent ashore in a radiation suit to investigate. The mysterious signal is the result of a Coca Cola bottle being bumped by a window shade fluttering in the breeze and tapping a telegraph key. Bitterly disappointed, the submariners return to Australia to live out the remaining time before the nuclear fallout reaches their shores. They do their best to enjoy what time and pleasures remain to them before dying. Scientist Julian Osborn  and others organize a wild motor race, the "Australian Grand Prix", in which all participants die in accidents except Osborn, at the wheel of his vintage Ferrari. Moira only sees the senselessness of the race, but when she asks Osborn why he is taking part, he responds, "because I want to". Prior to the submarine voyage to America, Towers told Moira about how he enjoys relaxing by fishing. During his absence, Moira gets the fishing season set earlier so Dwight will get one last chance to fish. With Towers now accepting the death of his family, they embark on a weekend trip. Retreating to the resort for the night, Dwight and Moira share a romantic interlude inside their room as outside a gathering storm howls. Returning to Melbourne, Towers is told one of his crew has developed radiation sickness. The deadly radiation has arrived. Some citizens seek spiritual guidance from the Salvation Army. They hang a banner from the public library stating that "There Is Still Time… Brother". Osborn, proud and satisfied after winning the "Australian Grand Prix", seals himself and the car, engine running, inside a garage to end his life by carbon monoxide poisoning. Others line up to receive their suicide pills. Later, Mary Holmes  becomes emotionally unbalanced and must be placed under sedation. She regains lucidity, and she and Peter share a tender moment together before Mary decides that she has been "foolish and impractical" and asks her husband to "take care" of her and their daughter. "I'd like that cup of tea now," she tells him. Dwight wants to stay with Moira, but his remaining crew want to head for home and die in the United States. In the end, Commander Towers chooses not to stay but rather to lead his crew back to the States. Moira watches from the shore as the Sawfish submerges beneath the waves. The end shows the deserted, abandoned streets of Melbourne. The last shot, punctuated by emphatic music, is of the "There Is Still Time… Brother" banner.  *Nevil Shute was displeased with the final cut of the film, feeling that too many changes had been made at the expense of the story's integrity. Gregory Peck agreed with him, but, in the end, producer/director Stanley Kramer's ideas won out. *In the novel, there are people still alive elsewhere in the Southern Hemisphere, and Australia is in radio contact with other places such as Montevideo and Cape Town. Commander Towers is in communication with the only other remaining active-duty U.S. Navy vessel: another submarine, USS Swordfish, which has been on duty in the Atlantic and, at the end, is based in Montevideo. Melbourne, where much of the novel is set, is the southernmost major city in the world and so will be the last such to go, but people in New Zealand, Tierra del Fuego and other, more southerly points are said to have a few additional weeks left to them. In the film, an unidentified radio newscaster says that, as far as is known, Australia is home to the last human life on the planet, and there is no USS Swordfish. *In the novel, the submarine is named Scorpion. In the film, she is called Sawfish. This may be because there was an actual USS Scorpion under construction at the time the film was made. A nuclear submarine like her fictional counterpart, USS Scorpion was in service from 1960 to 1968, when she was lost with all hands, cause unknown. *The novel describes Moira Davidson as a slender, petite pale blonde in her mid-twenties. In the film, she is portrayed by the tall, curvaceous, 37-year-old brunette Ava Gardner. *A naval training base near Seattle is the location in the novel where the strange Morse signals are detected. The film uses an oil refinery in San Diego as its location. *Buildings in San Francisco are shown as undamaged in the film, while in the novel the city has been largely destroyed and the Golden Gate Bridge has fallen *The northernmost point of the submarine's journey in the novel is the Gulf of Alaska, while the film uses Point Barrow. In reality, ice cover would have made it impossible for the submarine to surface off Point Barrow. *The nuclear scientist in the book is named John Osborne, a twenty-something bachelor. In the movie, he is portrayed by 60-year old Fred Astaire and is named Julian Osborn. The first name may have been changed and the surname spelled differently in the film to avoid any unintended reference to contemporary English playwright John Osborne. *Moira Davidson and John Osborne are cousins in the novel, but Moira Davidson and Julian Osborn are former lovers in the film. *Admiral Bridie and his secretary, Lieutenant Hosgood, are in the film but not in the novel. *Moira and Dwight never sleep together in the novel; Dwight remains faithful to the memory of his wife. Moira, though disappointed at first, comes to respect his stance. Film director Stanley Kramer believed that audiences would not believe that Dwight, as played by Peck, could resist the charms of sex symbol Gardner, so a love scene was inserted. Shute disliked this change to his original storyline. *The novel ends with a dying Moira sitting in her car, taking her suicide pills, while watching Scorpion head out to sea to be scuttled. Unlike the book, no mention of scuttling the sub is made in the film; instead Commander Towers's crew asks that he try to take them home to the United States, where they can die on their home soil. Although he realizes that they probably will not survive the passage, he does as they request. In the film, Ava Gardner is seen merely watching Dwight's submarine disappear and is not seen to commit suicide at that time. *Unlike the novel, no blame is placed on whoever started the war; it is hinted that it may have been an accident, a few faulty vacuum tubes, or transistor circuits as in the similarly themed film Fail-Safe . *Dwight and Moira do not attend the "Australian Grand Prix" in the novel, unlike in the film. This was because they were vacationing in the mountains that day. However, during a radio news broadcast, they hear about John Osborne's first-place victory.{{Expand section}} West Point staffer Marty Maher , who came there from Tipperary as a waiter, enlisted in 1898, instructed several generations of plebes in boxing, swimming and tradition, stayed at West Point all his life, his romance and marriage to Mary O'Donnell, and his declining years after her death . He was buried there in 1961.http://www.irish-society.org/home/hedgemaster-archives-2/people/maher-martyThe Stooges are janitors working at a space center who accidentally blast off to Venus. They encounter a talking unicorn, a giant fire breathing tarantula, and an alien computer who has destroyed all human life on the planet and creates three evil duplicates of the Stooges. When the boys return home triumphant, they are given a hero's welcome.In a town on the French coast, English antiques dealer Maurice Lawes  is a witness to the night-time murder of a gendarme. The killer spots Lawes at his window, and realises he has been seen. The following evening, Lawes' daughter Janice  finds her father also murdered. An investigation is launched by the local police and a private insurance investigator Dermot Kinross . The initial assumption &ndash; that Lawes was murdered by the gendarme's killer to prevent identification &ndash; soon comes into question as several other individuals connected to Lawes are revealed to have plausible motives for the murder. Lawes' son Toby  is found to have been embezzling funds from his father to pay off a blackmailing ex-mistress; Toby's fiancée Eve , living directly opposite the murder scene, is investigated and found to have in her possession bloodstained clothing which she cannot satisfactorily explain away. Eve's ex-husband Ned  turns out to have a particular interest in a rare snuffbox from Lawes' personal collection which is discovered to be missing, and may have killed Lawes when disturbed in the process of burglary. Eve comes under particular scrutiny as it is considered she could have been an accomplice of either Toby or Ned. It falls to Kinross to unravel the actual chain of events and arrive at the correct solution.Tom Owens travels west to learn more about the stagecoach business. Sam Todd is waiting at a remote way station to teach him the ropes. A woman named Vinnie Holt and her young niece Callie arrive on a coach that has been robbed. Owens and Todd are told that four escaped convicts named Zimmerman, Tevis, Yancy and Gratz intend to ambush the stage again when it returns east carrying a shipment of gold. Zimmerman pretends to be a lawman and Todd is killed. He and the other outlaws spare Owens' life because they need an official from the overland stage line to vouch that all is well when the gold shipment goes through. Vinnie pretends to be Owens' wife. In an attempt to escape, they use a kitchen knife to open a hole in a wall, but it is only the smaller Callie who gets out. Tevis tries to force himself on Vinnie and when Zimmerman makes an effort to stop him, Tevis shoots him in the back. Gratz intervenes and is gunned down by Tevis as well. Tevis has the child, forcing Owens to cooperate with him. Owens' life is in grave danger but Vinnie is able to recover Gratz's rifle. She shoots Tevis with it. That leaves only Yancy, who discovers that the gang's plan has failed.The storyline involves two ranch partners  who are killed by the 'Masked Raiders' defending their land. Their infant sons are separated, one being raised on the farm and the other being raised in New York. Twenty-five years later, these two boys  meet again. They must work through their differences and band together like their fathers before them and defend the ranch against the 'Masked Raiders'.Luke Cromwell, aka the "Silver Kid" , loses his father to mine claim-jumpers. He is deputised by Marshal Lightning Tyrone  of Silver City who wants to defeat the claim jumpers. Both men fall for woman, Tyrone for the treacherous Opal Lacey , who is secretly in league with the claim jumpers, and Cromwell with tomboy, Dusty Fargo .A prisoner is freed from jail after experimental brain surgery removes his criminal instincts and his memory. Will he recall where stashed the $130,000 from a previous heist before his greedy ex-partners take him out? Is the bleached blonde floozie trying to help or after the money herself? What better way to resolve the dilemma than on a high-flying roller coaster?'Doc' Penny  and his gang rob a gasoline station and in the process a police officer is killed and one of the gang members is wounded. The wounded thug imposes himself on Steve Lacey , an ex-con trying to start a new life, and demands he call a disreputable doctor for help. The doctor arrives, but too late. The gang member is dead. After his death, Lacey calls his parole officer who involves a hard-nosed cop, Detective Lieutenant Sims , who doesn't think he can reform. Later, the remaining gang members show up at Lacey's apartment. Fearing for his wife's  safety, he decides to let the men stay. Subsequently, Penny forces Lacey to rob a bank with them, but Lacey alerts the police  who staff the entire bank with police officers and ambush the robbers. In the end, most of the gang is killed, but Lacey and his wife are safe.Sandy McKenzie  sets out on his last hunt with his long-time partner, the obsessive Charles Gilson ([[Robert Taylor . While McKenzie has grown tired of buffalo hunting, Gilson derives a pleasure from his "stands" – killing an entire herd of buffalo at one time. When Gilson chases down and kills an Indian raiding party, he takes an Indian woman and her child captive. The presence of the native woman causes tension and Gilson becomes increasingly paranoid and deranged, leading to a stand-off between the two former partners.During the War of 1812, Captain James Marshall has to run the blockade enforced by the British in order to collect a war loan obtained from France. His first mate is Ben Waldridge, who is a former Royal Navy captain cashiered by the navy. Waldridge brings his former gun crew along and as soon as they realize that there's gold coming on board, they plot mutiny. Leslie, Waldridge's gold-loving former sweetheart, arrives at the same time.A geology expedition in the Amazon uncovers fossilized evidence from the Devonian period of a link between land and sea animals in the form of a skeletal hand with webbed fingers. Expedition leader Dr. Carl Maia  visits his friend, Dr. David Reed ([[Richard Carlson , an ichthyologist who works at a marine biology institute. Reed persuades the institute's financial backer, Dr. Mark Williams , to fund a return expedition to the Amazon to look for the remainder of the skeleton. They go aboard a tramp steamer, the Rita, which is captained by a crusty old codger named Lucas . The expedition consists of David, Carl and Mark, as well as Reed's girlfriend, Kay Lawrence , and another scientist, Dr. Edwin Thompson . When they arrive at the camp, they discover that Maia's entire research team has been mysteriously killed while he was away. Lucas suggests it was done by a jaguar, but the others are unsure. In fact, the camp was attacked by a piscine amphibious humanoid, a living member of the same species from which the fossil originated. The creature, curious upon seeing the expedition, investigates the camp site, but when its sudden appearance frightens the members, they attack it, and in response, the enraged creature kills them. The excavation of the area where Carl found the hand turns up nothing. Mark is ready to give up the search, but David suggests that perhaps thousands of years ago the part of the embankment containing the rest of the skeleton fell into the water and was washed downriver. Lucas says that the tributary empties into a lagoon known as the "Black Lagoon", a paradise from which no one has ever returned. The scientists decide to risk it, unaware that the amphibious "Gill-man" that killed Carl's assistants earlier has been watching them. Taking notice of the beautiful Kay, it follows the Rita all the way downriver to the Black Lagoon. Once the expedition arrives, David and Mark go diving to collect fossils from the lagoon floor. After they return, Kay goes swimming and is stalked underwater by the creature, who then gets briefly caught in one of the ship's draglines. Although it escapes, it leaves behind a claw in the net, revealing its existence to the scientists. Subsequent encounters with the Gill-man claim the lives of two of Lucas's crew members, before the Gill-man is captured and locked in a cage on board the Rita. It escapes during the night and attacks Edwin, who was guarding it. Kay hits the beast with a lantern; driving it off before it can kill Edwin. Following this incident, David decides they should return to civilization, but as the Rita tries to leave, they find the entrance blocked by fallen logs, courtesy of the escaped Gill-man. While the others attempt to remove the logs, Mark is mauled to death trying to capture the creature single-handedly underwater. The creature then abducts Kay and takes her to his cavern lair. David, Lucas, and Carl give chase to save her. Kay is rescued and the creature is riddled with bullets before he retreats to the lagoon where his body sinks in the watery depths, presumably dead.Jerry Florea  is planning a heist. The story begins with the events which led a young Florea  to become a crook. One day he is shot during a robbery and as a result an ameniable policeman and his wife take him under their wing.<ref nameLangman|first1Finn|first2A guide to American crime films of the forties and fifties|urlmqMYAQAAIAAJ|accessdate1995|publisher254}} As a young man he deludes them, and pretends to no longer have criminal intent and even gets a job at the Brinks. They are unaware he is preparing to rob the establishment. It is only after he and his gang pull off the heist that Florea reconsiders his actions and attempts to make amends for the crime.Tony Rivers , a troubled teenager at Rockdale High, is known for losing his temper and overreacting. A campus fight between Tony and classmate Jimmy  gets the attention of the local police, Det. Donovan  in particular. Donovan breaks up the fight and advises Tony to talk with a “psychologist” that works at the local aircraft plant, Dr. Alfred Brandon , a practitioner of hypnotherapy. Tony declines, but his girlfriend Arlene  - as well as his widowed father  - show concern about his violent behavior. Later, at a Halloween party at “the Haunted House” – an old house that several of the teenagers hang out at – Tony attacks his friend Vic  after being surprised from behind. After seeing the shocked expressions on his friends’ faces, he realizes he needs help and goes to see Dr. Brandon. On Tony’s first visit, however, Brandon makes it clear that he has his own agenda while the teenager lies on the psychiatrist’s couch: Tony will be an excellent subject for his experiments with a scopolamine serum he’s developed that regresses personalities to their primitive instincts. Brandon believes that the only future mankind has is to 'hurl him back to his primitive state.' Although Brandon's assistant, Dr. Hugo Wagner , protests that the experiment might kill Tony, Brandon continues and within two sessions suggests to Tony that he was once a werewolf. That night, after a small party at the haunted house, Tony drives Arlene home; and one of their buddies, Frank , is attacked and killed as he is walking home through the woods. While Donovan and Police Chief Baker  review photographs of the victim and await an autopsy, Pepi , the police station's janitor, persuades officer Chris Stanley  to let him see the photos. Pepi, a native of the Carpathian Mountains, where werewolves, “human beings possessed by wolves” are common, immediately recognizes the marks on Frank's body, much to the disbelief of Chris, who balks at the idea of a werewolf. The next day, after another session with Brandon, during which Tony tells the doctor that he feels that there is something very wrong with him, Tony reports to Miss Ferguson , the principal of Rockdale High. Miss Ferguson tells Tony that she is pleased with him; Brandon has given him a positive report regarding his behavior; and that she intends to recommend Tony for entry into State College. As Tony leaves the principal's office happy with the good news, he passes the gymnasium where Theresa  is practicing by herself. A school bell behind his head suddenly rings, triggering his transformation into a werewolf, and he attacks and kills Theresa. Tony flees the highschool and despite the changes in his facial appearance, witnesses identify him by his clothing, causing Baker to issue an all-points bulletin for his arrest. A local reporter, Doyle , interviews Tony's father as well as Arlene and her parents, in the hope of locating Tony and getting a scoop. Baker and Donovan attempt to trap Tony in the woods where they think he may be hiding. Still in the form of a werewolf, Tony watches as the dragnet looks for him, but is surprised by a dog and ends up killing it. In the morning, Tony awakens and sees he has reverted to his normal appearance and walks into the town. After phoning Arlene , Tony heads to Brandon's office and begs for his help. Brandon wants to witness Tony's transformation, and capture it on film in order to advance himself in the scientific community. Brandon tells Tony he will help him and after telling him to lie on the couch, and injects him with the serum again. Immediately following the transformation, a nearby ringing telephone triggers Tony's instincts and he leaps up and kills both Brandon and Wagner, breaking open the film camera in the process, ruining the film. Alerted that Tony has been seen nearby, Donovan and Chris break in and are forced to shoot several times as Tony advances toward them. Upon dying, Tony’s normal features return, leaving Donovan to speculate on Brandon's involvement – and on the mistake of man interfering in the realms of God.In May 1953, a new group of Army recruits at Fort Bliss in El Paso, Texas encounter their drill instructors, Sgt. Laverne Holt  and the tough-as-nails Sgt. Thorne Ryan . After Ryan's caustic appraisal of the recruits, Holt vows to make soldiers out of them during their sixteen weeks of basic training. Ryan, a combat veteran who resents his stateside duty, repeatedly applies for a transfer back to the Korean front. One night, the men cross the border to Mexico for recreation. In a bar, Ryan and Holt see a beautiful woman, Julie Mollison , buying drinks for a group of soldiers. Later that evening, the two sergeants escort the inebriated Julie to her apartment, and Ryan finds himself drawn to her. Training begins. Ryan exposes his men to tear gas to prepare them for the harsh conditions of battle. Ryan and Holt return to the bar one night, and find Julie sitting alone. When the crude Sgt. Vince Opperman  insults Julie, she runs out of the bar in tears, and Holt comforts her. Ryan and Opperman fight, and Opperman reveals that Julie was married to a soldier who was killed in Korea shortly after she left him. One day, recruit Lobo Naglaski ([[Steve Forrest  visits the camp chaplain to confess his murderous feelings toward Ryan, but comes to see that the sergeant has very little time in which to do a tough job. Tensions arise between Ryan and Holt, both over Ryan's callous treatment of the men and Holt's relationship with Julie. Ryan puts his men through increasingly tough drills, and during a bitter confrontation one day, Holt slugs Ryan and walks away. Later, Ryan calls on Julie at her apartment, and they fall into a passionate embrace. When she resists his further advances, however, Ryan becomes insulting, casting aspersions on Julie's virtue and chiding her for having left her late husband. One day, during a field exercise, recruit Donald Quentin Dover IV ([[Robert Arthur  runs away. Ryan tracks him down and gives the young man a second chance, confessing that his own father had been a deserter. As the training period draws to a close, Ryan returns to Julie's apartment and discovers she has moved out. He finds Julie and Holt at the train station. After Holt leaves, Ryan apologizes for his behavior and asks Julie to marry him, but she sadly replies that he is married to the Army. Outside the train station, Ryan and Holt silently make their peace. The men finish basic training, and as the new soldiers march by during their graduation exercises, Ryan proudly points them out to a fresh group of recruits.In the early 1950s, Kalique, a port in North Africa, a man  is escorted through an angry, clamouring crowd by a platoon of soldiers. They enter a fort and it is clear that he is to be executed. The commander  orders the men to line up in two rows and gives the order to fire. As the shots ring out, the scene changes to a ferry ship, the "Golden Fleece" in the docks as the passengers embark for the two days' journey to Gibralter. Amongst the crew, there is much dismay, and the chief officer, Carlos Ricco takes to his cabin with the clear intention of getting drunk. He is interrupted by an elderly gentleman, Lawrence St. James  who had come to speak his nephew, Captain Henry St. James on an unspecified, but urgent, matter. He is profoundly shocked to learn that the grief he had encountered on the ship is due to the death of the man he had traveled from England to see. He begs Ricco, to explain what has led to such an event. He learns that his nephew Henry was the prosperous owner and skipper of this small passenger ship which he captained as it ferried regularly to and fro between Gibraltar and Kalique, a port in North Africa. In Morocco, he lives with his lover, Nita {{spaced ndash}}a young, hot-blooded, exotic lady. She is 13 years younger than he and refers to him as "her Jimmy". He takes her out every night to expensive, fashionable restaurants and night clubs, where they lead a loud and wild lifestyle, and swim in the sea in the middle of the night. In Gibralter, he shares his life with Maud {{spaced ndash}}his devoting, domesticated wife, just three years his junior{{spaced ndash}}living a respectable, sober existence, and going to bed every night no later than ten o'clock with their cocoa. St James gives Nita lingerie. He gives Maud a vacuum cleaner. Both are delighted. He has found a perfect existence{{spaced ndash}}his paradise. Growing perhaps complacent, St. James makes a careless mistake. This leads to Ricco, up till then believing Nita to be the captain's wife, discovering that the true Mrs. St James is living in Gibralter. Ricco is glad to assist St. James in maintaining the deception and is soon called into action when Maud flies to Kalique and by chance meets Nita. St. James arranges to have Maud arrested before she and Nita were about to realise that they are married to the same man. He convinces Maud that Morocco is a dangerous place and that she should never return there. The years pass by. Maud has twins. She is thrilled with her two boys, but when they are sent to school in England, Maud is no longer enamoured with her existence. She wants to dance and drink gin. On the other hand, Nita wants to stay home and cook for her man. Henry is dismayed and makes every effort to keep everything just the way it was. His attempts to maintain the status quo result in both women taking lovers. When St James discovers Nico's infidelity, he leaves the flat as she continues the argument with her lover, Absalom. Nita shoots and kills her lover. To spare Nita, Captain St. James claims he was the killer. The execution is then shown, but the firing squad swing their rifles to the left and shoot their commanding officer. St. James hands them money and walks away.A young man named Abel  narrowly escapes Caracas, Venezuela after it is overtaken by rebels. He decides to seek revenge, as his father, the former Minister of War, was killed. After getting supplies, he takes a canoe to the far shore, where he is nearly killed by a leopard, but is saved by the native, Indian-like people. He decides to prove his bravery by not moving once he sees the chief, Runi  and telling his story. The Indians are impressed, and do not kill him. After a while, Runi's son Kua-ko , who has lived with the missionaries of Caracas and speaks English, tells Abel that Runi has agreed so long as he does not harm them, they will not harm him. Abel agrees, and befriends Kua-ko, who tells him of the "Bird Woman", who killed his older brother, and that their tribe is not allowed in the nearby forest. Abel ignores the warning and ventures into the forest, where he sees a young woman ; however, she quickly disappears. He returns to the Indians, and Kua-ko tells him that Runi wishes Abel to use his gun and kill the girl. He returns to the forest, but decides to warn the girl instead. He sees her again, but is bitten by a coral snake. The girl takes Abel to her home and tends his wound. Upon waking up, he meets the girl's grandfather, Nuflo , who tells him her name is Rima. The next day, with his leg wounded by the snake, Abel meets Rima again and they begin to talk. Rima takes a liking to him, but Nuflo warns her that he will leave once his leg heals. Abel is soon able to walk without a cane, and Rima therefore begins showing him the forest. Abel tells her that he has come to like her as well, and Rima is confused. She goes to speak with her dead mother's spirit, and decides to return to where she came from to ask a village elder about her strange new feelings for Abel. Later, Abel and Rima travel to the edge of the forest, where he shows her Riolama, which she remembers as her village. Despite Nuflo's initial reluctance to take her, Rima forces him to show her the way by threatening his soul if he does not. Abel decides it is time for him to return to the Indians. He tells Runi of how Rima saved him, but neither he nor Kua-ko believe him. He quickly realizes that Kua-ko killed his brother and placed the blame on Rima, but is tied up. After a bravery test , Kua-ko and the Indians make ready to enter the forest and kill Rima. Abel escapes and warns Nuflo and Rima, and together they escape to Riolama, where Nuflo tells Abel that he cannot return to the village because he caused a massacre. He managed to help Rima and her mother, and promised to take care of Rima, but was ashamed at his part in the massacre. Rima overhears, and curses Nuflo. She then rushes down to Riolama, where she faints in the heat. Abel follows and takes her to safety. When she awakens, Abel tells her how he has come to love her, and Rima does also, having only come to decipher her strange feelings and now recognizing them as love for him. Rima steals away while Abel is asleep to go back to Nuflo and apologize, but when she finds him, the Indians have burnt their home and he is nearly dead. She asks his forgiveness, and with his last words Nuflo tries to warn her of the Indians. She quickly discovers for herself, and races through the forest to escape. Kua-ko burns the great tree where she has hidden. Meanwhile, Abel awakens and realizes what Rima has done. He quickly follows and finds Kua-ko, who teases that he killed her. The two fight into a stream, where Abel manages to drown Kua-ko. Abel remembers a flower Rima told him of, which, if it disappears in one place, blossoms in another close by. He finds the flower, and not far off, Rima herself, who extends her hand. He takes it, and they begin their life in the forest together.Former Confederate soldier and highwayman-turned-marshal Jake Wade breaks his former partner, Clint Hollister, out of jail in the small western town of Morganville. The men have not seen each other for over a year, since the bank robbery and murder that resulted in Jake's arrest. At that time, Clint rescued Jake and the men separated with an agreement to reunite later. Instead, Jake buried the $20,000 from the robbery in the desert and decided to go straight. Believing that he has now repaid Clint by freeing him from jail, Jake refuses to tell Clint where the money is buried and advises him to leave the territory. Disgruntled and disturbed by what he considers Jake's betrayal, Clint vows vengeance. Carefully covering his trail, Jake returns to Cold Stream, where he serves as marshal. That evening, Jake dines at the home of his fiancée Peggy, and asks if she would consider relocating after their upcoming marriage. Startled, Peggy asks for an explanation, but when Jake hesitates, then flatly refuses to explain, Peggy angrily sends him home. Returning to his office, Jake is confronted and knocked out by a stranger, Rennie. Upon reviving, Jake discovers Clint and the rest of his old gang and army comrades, Ortero, Wexler, Burke and newcomer, the hot-headed Rennie. When Jake expresses amazement that Clint was able to track him, Clint reveals that he set loose the horse Jake had brought for him and followed it to Cold Stream. Clint then demands that Jake take him to the buried money and when he refuses, Clint has Burke and Rennie bring in Peggy, whom they have abducted. Clint then announces that to assure Jake's compliance, Peggy will accompany them to the money. The next morning, on their way into the desert, Clint forces Jake to ride with his hands tied behind him, as Clint did when he was arrested. When the men set up camp that night, Clint tells Peggy about Jake's disloyalty. In a private moment later, Jake apologizes to Peggy for causing the dilemma and warns her that they may have only one opportunity to escape. The next day, after the bound Jake falls off his horse repeatedly, the men protest and Clint reluctantly agrees to untie Jake's hands. Jake immediately snatches Wexler's pistol and grabbing Peggy, tumbles down a sand dune into a canyon with her. Although the couple take the long way out of the canyon, Clint guesses Jake's plan and recaptures them. That night, Clint goads Jake into telling Peggy about their past. Jake explains that they were part of a Southern guerrilla outfit during the war, conducting looting raids that Clint insisted they continue after the war. Jake admits that during a bank robbery, a teenage boy was caught in the crossfire, prompting him to go straight. Clint scoffs, then demands to know when they will reach the buried money, and Jake promises they will be there the next day. The following afternoon the group meet a cavalry patrol and the commanding officer advises them to turn back because of the danger of Comanche attacks. Using Jake's identity as a marshal, Clint invents a story for being in the area and the lieutenant reluctantly allows them to proceed. The men are uneasy about riding into Indian territory and when Rennie shoots at coyotes, Wexler is outraged, certain that the shots will surely attract the Comanche. The group then arrives at a ghost town, where Jake reveals he has hidden the money. Jake spots three Indian scouts, telling Clint of one. After killing the 1st, Jake informs Clint of 2 other scouts. Enraged, Clint declares he must go after the others to prevent them reporting their location, telling Rennie he could have Peggy if he doesn't make it back. The remaining gang along with Jake and Peggy take shelter in the deserted saloon, tying Jake to a chair. While the men take turns keeping guard, Jake pleads with Ortero to save Peggy and return her to Cold Stream. As night falls, several calls are heard outside and Jake tells the men they are surrounded by Indians who will attack soon. When the others dart outside, Ortero tells Jake that he was not responsible for the teenager's death at the bank, but Clint allowed him to believe it in hopes of binding Jake to him. As the Indian calls intensify, Rennie anxiously tells the men they should flee as it is apparent Clint has abandoned them. The men return to the saloon and are bickering about escaping, when Clint abruptly returns. As Burke hysterically announces that they must go, he is killed by an Indian lance. The building is quickly surrounded by Indians and a vicious fight breaks out. Clint runs outside to fight and soon after, Wexler and Rennie are killed by Indian arrows. When an Indian breaks in, Jake distracts him and Peggy kills him with a lance. Peggy then cuts Jake's ropes, and as Clint and Ortero fight off the last of the Indians, they attempt to escape, but are caught by Clint. After Ortero buries the others, Clint asks Jake to take him to the money, and Jake reveals it is in a saddlebag, buried three feet deep in the cemetery. Jake digs up the saddlebag, then surprises Clint by pulling out a pistol from it. Although Clint suspects the gun will not function after spending a year underground, he eventually surrenders his gun as does Ortero. Jake then asks Ortero to take Peggy away and he agrees, they two ride out of town despite her protests. After Ortero and Peggy depart, Jake gives Clint an opportunity to settle the score by tossing his gun several yards away. Frustrated, Clint dashes for the gun, while Jake hides among the dilapidated buildings, forcing Clint to search for him. After a tense game of "cat-and-mouse," Jake and Clint confront each other in the street and Jake kills Clint. Hearing the gunshots, Peggy and Ortero return for Jake.Matt Campbell arrives in Kenya, where his brother George is reported missing. A man named Ralph Hoyt tells him that George has been killed by members of the "Leopard Men" cult. Matt is introduced to Hoyt's niece, Ann Wilson, an anthropologist, who is puzzled by Matt's reluctance to go to Mombasa for his brother's funeral. Matt also meets big-game hunter Gil Rossi, who was helping George search for a valuable uranium mine. Hoyt claims the mine doesn't exist. Another business partner, Elliott Hastings, claims that George's body has been cremated but he did find a map. An expedition beyond Mombasa is formed, guided by Ketimi and other local tribesmen. A shared experience with a charge of hippos brings Matt and Ann closer together, while Gil is nearly killed by an alligator before it is shot by Hastings. Tribesmen wearing leopard disguises attack Hastings that night. Ketimi is then killed by a poison dart, causing the other tribesmen to leave. Locating a shaft to the mine, Matt and Ann are lowered into it. She discovers to her horror that Hoyt, her uncle, has murdered Gil with a blow gun. Hoyt confesses to killing Ketimi and paying other natives to disguise themselves as the mythical Leopard Men. Matt and Ann are about to become the next victims, but Ketimi's fellow tribesmen reappear and take their revenge.The film begins shortly before the outbreak of World War II when ensign Jochen Marseille is located at a Luftwaffe  Kriegsschule  in Berlin, where he makes a negative impression on his superiors with daredevil stunts and undisciplined behavior. His friend and comrade, Robert Franke, helps spare him from severe punishment. His squadron moves to France after the outbreak of World War II. During the Battle of Britain, Marseille experiences the brutality of war for the first time when Franke is shot down over the English Channel and is posted missing for a short while. But after his comrade's return, Marseille is back to a carefree world of flying. A thoughtful conversation in a bar while playing a game of billiards with an elderly French civilian affects him and his fellow pilots only briefly. A short time later, his unit is transferred to the Afrikakorps in the North African Theater of Operations. Marseille, thanks to his outstanding flying skill and talent, quickly becomes the most successful fighter pilot. In North Africa, the intensity of aerial combat continues. During a reconnaissance flight over Egypt, his aircraft suffers an engine failure and only with difficulty does Marseille manage to return to German-controlled airspace. He bails out as the aircraft crashes, but his parachute does not open. His body is later found in the desert. Brigitte receives the news of his death and collapses while teaching a class.Professor Sir Oliver Lindenbrook , a geologist at the University of Edinburgh, is given a piece of volcanic rock by his admiring student, Alec McEwan . Deciding that the rock is unusually heavy, Lindenbrook, mostly thanks to the carelessness of his lab assistant, Mr. Paisley , discovers a plumb bob inside bearing a cryptic inscription. Lindenbrook and Alec discover that it was left by a scientist named Arne Saknussem, who had, almost 300 years earlier, found a passage to the center of the Earth. After translating the message, Lindenbrook immediately sets off with Alec to follow in the Icelandic pioneer's footsteps. Professor Göteborg of Stockholm , upon receiving correspondence from Lindenbrook regarding the nature of the message, opts to try to reach the Earth's center first. Lindenbrook and McEwan chase him to Iceland. There, Göteborg and his assistant kidnap and imprison them in a cellar. They are freed by an athletic Icelander, Hans Bjelke , and his pet duck Gertrude. They find Göteborg dead in his room at an inn. Lindenbrook finds some potassium cyanide crystals in Göteborg's goatee and concludes that he has been killed. Göteborg's widow, Carla , who initially believed Lindenbrook was trying to capitalize on the work of her deceased husband, learns the truth from her husband's diary. She provides the equipment and supplies Göteborg had gathered, including much sought after Ruhmkorff lamps, but only on condition that she go along. Lindenbrook grudgingly agrees, and the four explorers and the pet duck are soon journeying into the Earth. They are aided by marks left by Arne Saknussem showing the path he took 300 years before. However, they are not alone. Count Saknussem  thinks that, as Arne Saknussem's descendent, only he has the right to be there. He trails the group secretly with his servant. When Alec became separated from the others, he almost trips over Saknussem's dead servant. When Alec refuses to be his replacement, Saknussem shoots Alec in the arm. Lindenbrook locates Saknussem from the reverberations of the sound of the shot, and sentences him to death. However, no one is willing to execute him, so they reluctantly take him along. The explorers eventually come upon a subterranean ocean. They construct a raft from the stems of giant mushrooms to cross it. Their raft begins circling in a mid-ocean whirlpool. The professor deduces that this must be the center of the Earth because the magnetic forces from north and south meeting there are strong enough to snatch away even gold in the form of wedding rings and tooth fillings. Completely exhausted, they reach the opposite shore. While the others are asleep, a hungry Saknussem catches and eats Gertrude the duck. When Hans finds out, he rushes at the count, but is pulled off by Lindenbrook and McEwan. Reeling back, Saknussem loosens a column of stones and is buried beneath them. Right behind the collapse, the group comes upon the sunken city of Atlantis. They also find the remains of Arne Saknussem. The hand of his skeleton points toward a passage to the surface. They decide that they will have to break a giant rock blocking their way using gunpowder left by Saknussem. This awakens a giant lizard that attacks them, but it is killed by released lava. They climb into a large sacrificial altar bowl which they have placed in the passage, and are driven upward at great speed by the lava, reaching the surface through a volcanic shaft. Lindenbrook, Carla and Hans are thrown into the sea, while Alec lands naked in a tree in the orchard of a nunnery. When they return to Edinburgh, they are hailed as national heroes. Lindenbrook, however, declines the accolades showered upon him, stating that he has no proof of his experiences, but he encourages others to follow in their footsteps. Alec marries Lindenbrook's niece Jenny , and Lindenbrook and Carla, having fallen in love, kiss.Col. Paul W. Tibbets, Jr. ([[Robert Taylor  in 1945, is assigned to a dangerous mission in testing a new bomber, the Boeing B-29 Superfortress. The perilous assignment has caused his wife Lucy  to worry for his life and whether their marriage can survive the constant separations. After a year of scrutiny, Maj. Gen. Vernon C. Brent  who not only championed Tibbets as a test pilot, selects him to lead a new unit in the Pacific war, flying the B-29, armed with a new secret weapon. Scientists of the "Manhattan Project" explain what is "the best kept secret of the war," the atomic bomb. Along with Maj. Bill Uanna , the only other person who knows what the mission will entail, Tibbets is expected to keep strict discipline over the personnel assigned to a B-29 conversion unit at Wendover Field, Utah. When families of crew members are brought to Wendover, tensions erupt in the Tibbets family due to Lucy's attitude towards her husband's secrecy concerning the mission, as the decision to use the atomic bomb has been made. Flying out to the Pacific island base of Tinian, the B-29 designated for the Hiroshima bombing is named the Enola Gay.In August 1945, during preparation for the first atomic mission, Colonel Tibbets, the pilot who assumed command of the aircraft, named the B-29 aircraft after his mother, Enola Gay Tibbets.Murphy, Charles J.V. "Carl Spaatz: A Register of His Papers in the Library of Congress." Library of Congress. Retrieved: 4 August 2010.]]A comedian poses as an international spy to recover mysterious microfilm. Peanuts White, a burlesque comic, is recruited by U.S. agents to impersonate international spy Eric Augustine  in a mission to purchase a million-dollar microfilm in mysterious, exotic Tangier. There, he encounters the irresistible Lily Dalbray, an "old friend" of Augustine who is now dealing with his arch-enemy, Brubaker. But where is the real Eric? Comedy thriller with slapstick climax. Written by Rod Crawford on IMDBA melodrama about a group of delinquent teenagers under the leadership of a corrupt boss.Synopsis from {{cite web}}Major William Darby  is a staff officer who is placed in command of the volunteer US Army 1st Ranger Battalion based on and trained by the British Commandos. Darby and Master Sergeant Saul Rosen , who also narrates the film, select a variety of men for training in Scotland. Darby tells his volunteers that the British Commandos are the best soldiers in the world, but in time they will be. The Americans are quartered in Scottish homes and several of the Rangers pair off with local lassies: Rollo Burns ([[Peter Brown  with Peggy McTavish , the daughter of the fearsome but humorous Scottish Commando instructor, Sergeant McTavish , and vagabond Hank Bishop  with the proper Wendy Hollister .Glamour girl After a landing in French North Africa, two more Ranger battalions are formed, with Darby promoted to colonel. Joining the Rangers is 2nd Lieutenant Arnold Dittmann , a by-the-book West Pointer who is humanized by his encounter with Angelina De Lotta . There are several action scenes in a bombed out Italian village where the men face a sniper, and a running firefight with the Germans. Darby confides to Rosen a recurring dream of being run over by an oncoming train, foreshadowing the climax. His 1st and 3rd Ranger Battalions are ambushed and wiped out by the Germans at the Battle of Cisterna at Anzio. Darby leads his 4th Ranger Battalion in an unsuccessful rescue attempt. Of the 767 men who go in, only seven come back, the majority being captured.An Incan legend states that the Inca Empire was destroyed by the gods when a gold and jeweled starburst was stolen from the Temple of the Sun centuries ago, and that the ancient civilization will be reborn once the treasure is returned. Harry Steele , an American adventurer, is seeking the artifact, as is his nemesis Ed Morgan ([[Thomas Mitchell , along with Elena Antonescu , an Iron Curtain refugee.A spoiled child television star steals Sach and Duke's car. After retrieving the vehicle, the duo "teach the kid a lesson". Television executives, who are disgruntled by the child, are impressed by the duo who are then hired to watch after the boy. The child's uncle/manager is not happy with Sach and Duke's influence over the child so he gets the two fired and then kidnaps the boy for ransom, to cover up his stealing the boys earnings. Sach and Duke then rescue him.A courtroom drama, it sees an American scientist charged for murder by the British police for his supposed role in the death of an Eastern Bloc defector.During World War II, a Royal Artillery officer is assigned to an anti-aircraft battery that is filled with female soldiers of the Auxiliary Territorial Service. His wife who has enlisted is mistakenly posted to the battery in violation of regulations of husbands and wives serving together in the same formation. She becomes jealous of what she perceives as him paying to much attention to the other Auxiliary Territorial Service women.As Quatermass  struggles to gain Government support for his plans for the colonisation of the Moon, he becomes interested in reports of meteorites landing in an area known as Winnerden Flats. Travelling to the area with his colleague, Marsh , Quatermass is astounded to find a huge complex under construction, apparently based on his plans for a Moon colony. Marsh finds one of the meteorites, which cracks open leaving him injured with a V-shaped mark on his face. Armed guards from the plant, who are sporting similar V-shaped marks, arrive and take Marsh away. Quatermass is knocked down and ordered away by men with machine guns. Trying to discover what is going on at the plant and what has happened to Marsh, Quatermass contacts Inspector Lomax , the police officer who assisted him in The Quatermass Xperiment. Lomax puts him in touch with Vincent Broadhead , a Member of Parliament who has been trying to uncover the veil of secrecy surrounding Winnerden Flats. Quatermass joins Broadhead on an official tour of the complex, which, he is told, has been built to manufacture artificial food. Slipping away from the visiting party, Broadhead attempts to get inside one of the large domes that dominate the plant's skyline. Quatermass finds him dying, covered in a poisonous black slime. Shot at by guards as he exits the plant, Quatermass returns to Lomax, explaining that he believes that plant is indeed making food, but not for human consumption. Instead its purpose is to provide a suitable environment for alien creatures that are inside the great domes. Lomax attempts to alert his superiors but when he meets the Commissioner of Police, he notices he too is sporting the V-shaped mark. The aliens have taken control of the government. Quatermass and Lomax turn instead to the press, in the form of journalist Jimmy Hall . Hall is sceptical of their story and asks to visit Winnerden Flats himself. They visit the local community centre where they receive a hostile reception from the locals employed to do the building work at the plant. However, the mood changes when one of the meteorites crashes through the roof of the building and injures barmaid Sheila . Armed guards from the plant arrive and gun down Hall when he telephones the press about what is going on. The villagers form a mob and march on the plant. Rushing the gates, Quatermass, Lomax and the villagers barricade themselves into the pressure control room. Realising that the Earth's atmosphere must be poisonous to the creatures, Quatermass sabotages their life support system, pumping oxygen into the domes. Simultaneously, Quatermass' assistant, Brand  sacrifices his life to launch the Quatermass 2 rocket at an asteroid in Earth's shadow that they believe the aliens are using to stage their invasion. The creatures can combine to create 150-foot tall monsters that burst from the domes and run amok. The rocket strikes the asteroid, destroying it in a nuclear explosion. Their base gone, the giant creatures die and the V-shaped marks disappear from those affected, leaving them with no memory of having been under alien control. Once again Quatermass has saved the Earth from an alien intelligence.Robert "Dutch" Holland  is a professional baseball player with the St. Louis Cardinals,"Dutch" Holland is referred to by his given name once, by Sally's father, the reverend, in the opening scenes; the name appears on his nametag, although he is referred to by his nickname thereafter. as well as serving in the United States Air Force Reserve. During spring training in St. Petersburg, Florida, he is recalled to active duty for 21 months. He reports to his posting at Carswell AFB, a bomber base in Ft. Worth, Texas to qualify in the Convair B-36. He arrives in civilian clothing because his old uniforms are those of the old U.S. Army Air Forces. This is to the great displeasure of General Hawkes , the commander of SAC. The General's character is patterned after the real SAC commander General Curtis LeMay. Dutch is given a staff job with the bombardment wing at Carswell that involves a lot of flying. He soon has a B-36 crew of his own, selecting a former WWII colleague as his flight engineer, and becomes enamored with both flying and the role of SAC in deterring war. He is joined by his wife Sally , who had not bargained on being an Air Force wife, and who struggles with his repeated absences and the dangers of flying. On any given night, Dutch might find his aircraft on airborne alert far from the continental United States, in secret, only telling his wife when he returns days later. Even so, Sally tells Dutch that she is happy as long as they can be together, no matter what he decides to do with his life. The B-36 is a complex aircraft when introduced, but improvements are being worked on all the time. One challenge was leakage from the fuel tanks, but a new fix is introduced to address this once and for all. On their next flight, Dutch's crew has to fly their B-36 to Thule Air Base, Greenland. The fix does not work and one of the engines bursts into flame, causing the entire left wing to catch fire. The crew is forced to abandon the aircraft over the ice and snow of Greenland before arriving at Thule. Dutch and his Radar Navigator stay onboard for a forced landing, which causes Dutch to injure his right arm. Dutch becomes a favourite of General Hawkes and is rewarded with a revised assignment flying the new Boeing B-47 Stratojet at MacDill AFB in Tampa, across the bay from St. Petersburg where his old baseball team continues to conduct its spring training. Promoted to full "Bird" colonel and made deputy wing commander of his B-47 wing; Dutch decides, to Sally's displeasure, to remain in the Air Force, rather than return to baseball at the end of his active duty obligation. On a full B-47 wing movement exercise that involves flying nonstop from MacDill to Yokota Air Base, Japan. Enroute they encounter severe wind and storms, and low of fuel they divert to Kadena Air Base, Okinawa. As they prepare to land, Dutch realizes that his arm injury from the B-36 crash was worse than he thought, and it is almost immobile. He is barely able to operate the engine power levers  during final landing phase. This injury not only debars him from further flying (he is discharged from the Air Force , but also appears to threaten his baseball career. General Hawkes suggests he would make an excellent team manager.In this police thriller that partly takes place in Chicago Union Station, a railway policeman, William Calhoun, is approached at work by an apprehensive passenger named Joyce Willecombe  who believes that two travelers aboard her train may have been up to no good. Joyce is the secretary to a rich man named Henry Murchison , whose blind daughter, Lorna, has been kidnapped and held for ransom. The railway station where Calhoun works has been chosen as the location to pay off the ransom. Calhoun and fellow cop Inspector Donnelly race against time to find the kidnappers and bring them to justice.Test pilot John Mitchell  disappoints his wife Mary  by refusing to increase their unsuccessful bid for a house. What she does not know is that the aircraft manufacturing company he works for is in desperate financial straits. Owner Reginald Conway  needs to get Ashmore  to place an order soon or the firm will go bankrupt. Mitchell takes the only prototype of a new airplane for a flight, with Ashmore and several others aboard. During testing, one engine catches on fire. Ashmore and the others safely parachute to safety. Then, despite Conway's order and the urgings of others, Mitchell decides to try to land the plane rather than crashing it into the sea. However, he has to fly back and forth for half an hour to use up the fuel. During the tense wait, co-worker Mrs. Snowden  takes it upon herself to notify Mitchell's wife. Mary goes to the airfield and watches as her husband manages to land safely. Later, at home, she demands to know why he risked his life when everyone told him to bail out. He explains that it was his duty and the company's fate hung in the balance. Then he phones their real estate agent and agrees to the seller's price.{{Expand section}} A gang of robbers are terrorizing and robbing banks and payrolls in North Carolina, Virginia and Maryland. The gang's leader, George, seems to take particular delight in "bumping off" women who cross him. The film starts with comments from then-governors of North Carolina, Virginia and Maryland about how crime doesn't pay. Then the film's action begins.By age 17, John Paul, a native of Scotland, is an experienced ship's navigator. In 1773, nine years later, he is master of a ship in the West Indies, but after an incident that results in the governor of Tobago advising him to leave, John Paul adds the surname Jones and goes to visit a brother who lives in Fredricksburg, Virginia. The brother has recently died. Jones hires his attorney, Patrick Henry, to assist in business matters. He also takes a romantic interest in Henry's sweetheart, Dorothea Danders. After serving as second-in-command of a battleship in the Bahamas, his adopted countrymen sign the Declaration of Independence. Jones gets his first command, sets sail toward Newfoundland{{dn}} and seizes 18 enemy ships, sending their supplies to American general George Washington. Washington sends the young officer to France, where he is appreciated for heroic feats at sea. Benjamin Franklin then urges Johns to take a frigate and invade the British Isles. A new vessel is built for him at the suggestion of Marie Antoinette, and the only condition of his majesty King Louis XVI is that Jones' ship fly under an American flag. Jones' successes ultimately lead him to Russia in 1790 at the behest of the empress, Catherine the Great. He gains acclaim as one of the most brave and daring naval figures of his time.In the "early summer of 1950", Martin Greer owns a small construction company. An Army combat engineer for four years during World War II, he and wife Nancy have two young children. George Kress asks Martin to write a letter to the Selective Service System stating that his son, George Jr., is "indispensable" for their company and thus exempt from the draft. Martin refuses, and George Jr. joins the army as the Korean War begins. Martin's younger brother Jack is in love with college student Carrie Turner. Despite a trick knee he is drafted; Jack suspects that her father, who is on the local draft board and opposes their relationship, is the reason. His mother, who lost a son during the last war, asks Martin to write an "indispensable" letter for his brother; he seriously considers it but does not do so, and Nancy criticizes Jack for his reluctance to serve. Jack joins the army, where he briefly sees George Jr. before the latter goes to Korea. The army reports that George Jr. is missing in action, and his father drunkenly blames Martin. His former superior officer, having rejoined the military, asks Martin to join him; although eligible for exemptions, he agrees. Jack and Carrie marry during a furlough before he also goes overseas.Set in 19th Century New England, the story follows the whaling ship Pequod and its crew. Leading them is Captain Ahab, who was almost killed by the 'great white whale', Moby-Dick. Now he is out for revenge. With the crew that has joined him, Ahab is out to destroy the huge mammal, but soon he learns that his obsession with vengeance is so great that he cannot turn back, eventually leading to his death & all save his newest able seaman, Ishmael.An employee for a savings and loan desperate for cash plans and successfully robs a bank as an inside job. At first bank employee Poole  is considered a hero during the bank robbery but the police quickly figure out he's involved in the crime. The police catch up with Poole and his young wife at their apartment. Poole's wife is accidentally shot to death by the police during the gunfight. Poole is arrested, convicted and sent to prison for the robbery. While behind bars, Poole plans his escape and revenge on the men that killed his wife, especially the leader of the police raid, Lt. Wagner . Poole figures the best way to extract revenge is to kill Wagner's wife, Lila .The boys' friend, Dave Moreno, is being held for treason by the U.S. Air Force. Slip and Sach go to headquarters to help Dave, but mistakenly enlist. Sach is also mistakenly assigned to a WAF barracks. When the boys finally do visit Dave he tells them he does not need help, as he is secretly being used to capture enemy agents. Undeterred by Dave's words, the boys continue to investigate and Slip and Sach wind up airborne. Good luck allows them to land safely, just where the spies are hiding out. They capture the spies and Dave's true mission is revealed.The movie's plot is fairly divided between O'Brien, playing a frontier insurance investigator, and the Stooges, cast as itinerant peddlers. The star and his comic cohorts thwart a gang of thieves hijacking gold-mine shipments. The villain is local bigwig Sawyer , but the plot sneaks in a few interesting twists, including a red-herring character who might be a spy for the bad guys, or an agent for the good guys. The Stooges, despite their buffoonery, perform heroically during the climactic shootout. Sheila Ryan co-stars as the granddaughter of tipster doctor Clem Bevans, while silent-film star Monte Blue enjoys a larger part than usual as a local mine owner. Some of the stunts were performed by Hugh Hooker, who also plays a juvenile role.Three ex-G.I.'s have served in World War II together and become best friends. Upon returning home at the end of the war, they spend their last night together drinking in a favourite New York bar and exchanging their hopes and plans for the future. Before going their separate ways, they promise to reunite exactly ten years later at the same spot. However, when the three men eventually meet up again, they soon realize that they have steadily grown apart in the intervening years and are now very different people. Ted is a down-on-his-luck boxing promoter. Doug is now a stuffed-shirt advertising man with an ulcer. Angie runs a small hamburger stand. Each man is forced to face the fact that, to some extent, his present life falls short of how he had imagined it would turn out when a younger man. Circumstances reunite them when Ted falls for a beautiful woman, Jackie, who behind his back arranges for the three soldiers to appear together on a popular television program.Davy Crockett and George "Georgie" Russel are loaded with pelts as they make their way to the Mississippi River after a successful season of trapping and hunting in Kentucky. There they encounter Mike Fink, a blowhard keelboat captain who refuses to take them downriver, unless they pay a ridiculously high fee. That evening, Fink gets Georgie drunk and convinces him to keelboat race down the Mississippi with the season's pelts as wager. Crockett uses his notoriety to put together a crew and the race begins. Overcoming numerous obstacles along with Fink's dirty tricks, Crockett wins the race but amiably waives his claim on Fink's share of the wager. In gratitude, Fink challenges Crockett and Russel in a keelboat race to New Orleans, Louisiana.  Along the way, the men pick up a traveling minstrel named Colonel Plug who unknown to them is in league with local river bandits. On their way to get horses from friendly Chickasaw tribesmen, Crockett and Russel are kidnapped by a group of Chickasaws because white men have been murdering members of their tribe. Both Crockett and Fink discover that the river pirates led by Samuel Mason and the Harpe brothers are masquerading as Native Americans as they loot passing boats from a riverside Cave-In-Rock. Crockett and Russel find their way into the lair, and in the ensuing battle several kegs of gunpowder are exploded, sealing the cave. The victorious heroes escape unscathed with the subdued villains in tow.In 1847, remorseful former outlaw Glyn McLyntock  is scouting for a wagon train of settlers to Oregon. While he is checking the trail ahead, he rescues Emerson Cole ([[Arthur Kennedy  from being lynched for stealing a horse. Cole, who says the horse is "not exactly stolen," thinks he's heard of McLyntock, but doesn't pursue the subject. One of the pioneers in the wagon train is the eligible Laurie Baile . That night, they are attacked by five Shoshone Indians and Laurie is wounded by an arrow. McLyntock and Cole go out to deal with the Shoshones and Cole saves McLyntock's life in the process. McLyntock welcomes Cole, but Jeremy Baile , the leader of the settlers, does not trust Cole and does not believe that a man can change from bad to good. When they reach Portland, Oregon, Laurie remains there to recover. Cole also leaves the party saying that he wants to go to California to find gold. The rest, including McLyntock, go on to establish a settlement in the wilderness after making arrangements with a man named Tom Hendricks to send the supplies they need for the winter to be sent on later . That night, they have a big party and meet a professional gambler named Trey Wilson . With winter fast approaching and the supplies at least six weeks late, they begin to worry when the food supply runs low. McLyntock and Jeremy Baile go back to Portland to investigate. They find that a gold rush has inflated prices enormously. Laurie and Cole are working for Tom Hendricks and have no intention of going to the settlement. McLyntock is not happy to see them together as a couple. Hendricks , their greedy supplier, has reneged on their business deal and has decided to sell their supplies at the new higher prices to a mining camp. Cole helps McLyntock round up some bad men to load the food and take it back to the settlement. Laurie joins them. When they are pursued, McLyntock sets up an ambush. Hendricks and some of his gang are killed, and the rest are driven off. On the way to the settlement, some of the miners show up and offer an exorbitant price for the food. The hired men begin thinking about ways to commandeer the wagon train. Cole cannot resist the temptation of all that money and double-crosses his friend but doesn't kill him. That proves to be a mistake. McLyntock tracks them down and retakes the supplies with the assistance of Jeremy, Laurie, and Trey. Cole brings the miners to help him retake the supplies, but they are miners, not gunfighters and they lose to the more experienced gunhands. In a climactic brawl in the river, McLyntock kills Cole and they watch the current take his body toward the falls. At the end, they finally reach the settlement with the supplies and it's apparent that Laurie and Glyn are now a couple.John , a blacksmith and swordsmith, is tutored at Camelot. As a commoner, he can't hope to win the hand of Lady Linet , daughter of the Earl of Yeoniland , so he creates a secret alternate identity as the Black Knight. In this new role, he is now able to help King Arthur when Saracens and Cornish men—disguised as Vikings -- plot to take over the country. However, his thoughts are not only on the protection of England when the good Lady Linet becomes threatened. When conspirators within Camelot plan to use the "Vikings" to overthrow King Arthur, the Black Knight is branded a traitor.http://www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title.jsp?stid=27873After taking off from Vancouver, a Douglas DC-3 airliner catches on fire and crashes in the Canadian north. On board were two young children, Don  and Janet Heldon , ultimately the only survivors. Their father, pilot Vince  and his wife Julie  join forces with the family friend, bush pilot "Brandy"  and Nora Stead , the children's mother  to mount a desperate aerial search before incoming bad weather arrives. Tensions mount as the children face the danger of exposure and a mountain lion that begins to track them while the searchers themselves are in conflict as the hotshot pilot Stead creates problems with her constant efforts to take over the search. A final effort sees a reconciliation and a successful rescue in the nick of time.The main characters are Cochise ([[Jeff Chandler  and Tom Jeffords . The film is based on the actions of these historical figures, but tells their story in dramatized form. As the movie begins, Jeffords comes upon a wounded Indian, a 14-year-old Apache boy dying from buckshot wounds in his back. Jeffords gives the boy water and heals his wounds. The boy's tribesmen appear and are at first hostile, but due to Jeffords' treatment of the boy decide to let him go free. However a group of gold prospectors are spotted and Jeffords is gagged, tied to a tree and made to watch as the Apaches attack the prospectors and torture the survivors. The warriors then let him go but warn him not to enter Apache territory again. When Jeffords returns to Tucson he encounters a prospector who escaped the ambush. When he corrects the man's exaggerated account of the attack, another man, Ben Slade Will Geer asks how he knows what happened. Tom describes how he found the boy and the following events. Slade is incredulous and doesn't see why Jeffords didn't kill the boy. Jeffords is later asked to scout for the army but refuses. Jeffords learns Apache, how to make and read smoke signals and plans to go to Cochise's stronghold on behalf of his friend, Milt Arthur Hunnicut who is in charge of the mail service in Tucson. The Apaches have killed many couriers and halted the delivery of mail for years. Jeffords enters the Apache stronghold with the aid of smoke signals and begins a parley with Cochise, comparing the mail service to smoke signals. Cochise agrees to let the couriers through. Tom meets a young Apache girl, Sonseeahray Debra Paget and begins to fall in love. The Apaches stay true to their word and the mail riders are able to ride to Tucson. However Cochise did not agree to full peace and an army wagon train is massacred. When the survivors arrive in town Jeffords is almost lynched as a traitor before he is saved by General Oliver Howard who recruits Tom to negotiate peace with Cochise. Howard says that his troops call him "Bible-reading Howard". On questioning by Jeffords about the biblical implications for the Indians, Howard condemns racism, saying that the Bible "says nothing about pigmentation of the skin." Jeffords tells him to read the Bible for him, "because I like the way you read it." Jeffords manages to broker peace with Cochise but the Apaches splinter, a group led by Geronimo  oppose the treaty and leave the stronghold. Tom accompanies the first stagecoach to leave Tucson during the 'testing time' of three months set out by Cochise. Geronimo and his renegades ambush the coach as it stops at a river. Jeffords rides off to seek help from Cochise and the stagecoach is saved. Tom and Sonseeahray marry and have several days of tranquility. One day when Jeffords is getting an archery lesson from Cochise Ben Slade's son arrives, guarded by two Apaches. He spins a story about his horses being stolen by Cochise's Apaches, he denies this but Jeffords asks him to go along with the boy to prove Slade, a famous hater of the Apaches, wrong. Slade and a gang of men from Tucson ambush Cochise, Tom and Sonseeahray. Jeffords tells Cochise to run while he attempts to hold off the men. Tom is wounded and knocked unconscious and Sonseeahray is killed. Cochise dispatches several of the men including both of the Slades, and goes to gather his warriors. The remaining men from Tucson head for Mexico as the army will now surely hunt them down as criminals. Jeffords regains consciousness as Cochise returns and prevents Tom from killing one of the wounded men. He still backs the peace treaty. Howard and the army pay their respects at the Apache camp, and assure Jeffords that Sonseeahray's death will not be in vain. Jeffords leaves to wander the West on his own with the assertion that 'the death of Sonseeahray had put a seal upon the peace' and 'from that day on wherever I went - in the cities, among the Apaches, in the mountains - I always remembered my wife was with me'.Passing a stagecoach way station on his journey into town, Pat Brennan agrees to return with some storebought candy for the friendly station manager's young son. At a ranch where he once worked, the cheerful Brennan loses his horse in a wager and is forced to walk home. He gets a welcomed rescue from stagecoach driver Rintoon, hired to transport the newlyweds Willard and Doretta Mims. Doretta is a plain woman, but the daughter of the richest man in the state. It tickles Brennan, who tells Rintoon this is the first time he's ever been on a honeymoon. When they stop at the way station, they are mistaken for the regular stage by three outlaws, Chink, Billy Jack, and their leader, Frank Usher. Having already murdered the station manager and his son, the gang kills Rintoon when he reaches for a shotgun. Terrified of sharing the same fate, Mims suggests to the outlaws that ransoming his wife would be far more profitable than robbing the stage. Frank likes the idea. He makes one mistake, though -- he takes a liking to Brennan. He later tells Brennan that, under different circumstances, they might have been friends. Frank takes the woman and Brennan to a remote hideout while ordering Billy Jack to ride along with Mims and deliver a ransom note to Doretta's father, demanding $50,000. Mims returns, saying his father-in-law has agreed and is rounding up the money. Mims is told he is no longer needed and can leave. A coward, he does not even bother to say goodbye to his new wife, disgusting Frank. As he rides off, Mims is shot down. Brennan knows full well that he and Mrs. Mims can expect the same fate once the ransom is paid. He tells the distraught widow to collect herself and be ready to take any opportunity that presents itself. He then takes her in his arms. She hesitates, then kisses him. She confesses she married Mims because she was getting older and did not want to be alone. Frank leaves Billy Jack and Chink to guard the hostages while he goes off to collect the money. Brennan plants the thought that their ringleader might just ride off with all the money, so Chink leaves the camp to keep an eye on Frank. Brennan suggests to Billy Jack that he take advantage of Mrs. Mims, a lonely woman denied even her wedding night. Billy Jack does indeed try to force himself on Mrs. Mims, whereupon Brennan overpowers him and shoots him dead. Chink hears the shots and turns back. Brennan kills him. Frank then returns with the money, but when Brennan sneaks up behind him, surrenders his gun and the money, gambling that Brennan will not shoot him in the back. He slowly mounts his horse and rides off. However, he turns around and comes back firing, forcing Brennan to kill him. As Brennan and Mrs. Mims begin the long journey back side by side, she timidly puts her arm around his.Four robbers hold up an armored truck, getting away with over a million dollars in cash. Joe Rolfe , a down-on-his-luck flower delivery truck driver is accused of being involved and is roughly interrogated by local police. Released due to lack of evidence, Joe, following the clues to a Mexican resort, decides to look for the men who set him up both to clear his name and to exact revenge. What he doesn’t know is that the heist involves a retired policeman who is also intent on revenge. The plot was inspiration for Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs.{{cite book}}Tom Andrews  is a surveyor involved in the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway, which is stalled by the Rocky Mountains. While mapping a route through the mountains, Andrews is shot at by Dirk Rourke , a fur trader, and his accomplice Cagle . When Andrews returns to the construction camp, he sees Cagle working there and attacks him. Dr Edith Cabot  intervenes - she is a pacifist and disapproves of violence. Andrews heads for Calgary to his girlfriend, Cecille Gautier . Andrews and Cecille's father  attend a meeting at which Rourke campaigns against the railway, claiming it will mean the end of trade in the area. Andrews tries to convince the crowd that the railway will benefit them, and that Rourke objects only because it will end his business monopoly. He and Rourke get into a fist fight, which is broken up by Père Lacombe . To keep the peace , Andrews decides to return to work on the railway; Cecille, not understanding and upset at his intention to spend another year away, breaks their engagement. At the camp, Dynamite Dawson  tells Andrews of his suspicion that Indians have been stealing dynamite; Andrews later finds several cases of dynamite buried at an Indian village. The chief says that young braves had been paid by a white man to steal them. Back at the camp, Cagle and Rourke shoot at one of the cases as Andrews unloads them. Andrews is seriously injured in the resulting explosion. On board a train back to the base hospital, Dr Cabot transfuses her own blood to save Andrews's life. Meanwhile, back at the ranch, Cecille overhears Rourke, her father and others plotting to stop the railway by inciting the Indians to cause trouble. When she objects, her father threatens to disown her. Suspecting Rourke of having caused the explosion that injured Andrews, she decides to join him at the hospital, but is dissuaded by Dynamite, who persuades her to return home to gather evidence and to pass it on to him. Saboteurs cause a series of explosions, closing down railway construction for the winter. By the spring, Andrews has recovered, and has wooed Edith. Hearing of trouble at the camp, Andrews prepares to return, but Edith persuades him not to wear a gun. Rourke has stirred up the Indians and has established a saloon and gambling hall at the camp. When a man is shot at the saloon, Edith goes to help but is too late. Andrews straps on his guns again and closes the saloon. Cecille arrives, announcing that Rourke and the Indians are about to attack; Dynamite rides off to get reinforcements while the others take refuge in the hospital car. Cecille's injured father is brought in and tells them that they are considerably outnumbered. Andrews goes after Rourke and Cagle and, as the Indians prepare for a final attack, shoots Cagle. Rourke is killed by a falling branch from a tree that had been set on fire as a signal to the Indians. The Indians attack but reinforcements arrive by train at the last moment, and the they are driven off. Later, the Indian chief walks into the camp and sues for peace. Dismayed by the violence she has experienced in the west, Edith takes the train back east. Cecille looks on as Andrews joins the train and it moves off, but after apparently saying goodbye to Edith he jumps off and comes back to her.Kurt, a young apprentice in a fishing commune and a member of the Technology and Sport Association, enters a race to show his maritime skills. After he fails to win, he falls in love with a girl named Anke, but she loves the apprentice Hannes. Kurt and Hannes sail with skipper Laue on one of the collective's boats, SAS 181. Laue pretends to be Kurt's friend and encourages a conflict between the two boys. However, they both realize that he intends to reach the Danish isle of Bornholm and defect to the West. The two settle their differences and, with the help of the old fisherman Jens, return the boat home.On May 19, 1927, pilot Charles A. "Slim" Lindbergh  tries to rest in a hotel near Roosevelt Field on Long Island, New York. He has been waiting for a week for the rain to stop so he can attempt the first successful nonstop solo transatlantic flight from New York to Paris. While Lindbergh tries to fall asleep, his friend Frank Mahoney  guards his hotel room door from reporters who have also been waiting for a break in the weather. Unable to sleep, Lindbergh reminisces about his recent days as an airmail pilot flying from St. Louis to Chicago. Flying to Chicago in winter, Lindbergh lands his old de Havilland biplane in a small airfield to refuel. Despite the bad weather, Lindbergh takes off, unaware that the Chicago landing field has closed due to snow. Lindbergh's aircraft ices up and stalls, forcing him to parachute out with the mailbag. He continues his journey by train and meets a suspender salesman who tells Lindbergh that two airmen just died competing for the Orteig Prize to be awarded to the first pilots to fly from New York City to Paris , nonstop. From a diner at Lambert Flying Field in St. Louis, Lindbergh calls Columbia Aircraft Corporation in New York City, pretending to represent a group of prominent businessmen. Lindbergh is quoted the price of $15,000  for a Bellanca aircraft. For the next six weeks, Lindbergh presents his idea of entering the competition to St. Louis financiers and prominent St. Louis citizens, explaining he can cross the ocean in 40 hours in a single-engine aircraft if he strips it of all non-essential weight, allowing room for extra fuel tanks. The men are excited by Lindbergh's vision and name the aircraft, Spirit of St. Louis. At the request of his backers, Lindbergh travels to San Diego, California to check out a small aircraft factory, Ryan Aeronautical Company. There he meets Mahoney, the president of the company, who promises to build him an aircraft in just 90 days. At the factory, Frank, Lindbergh, and Ryan's chief engineer Donald Hall  agree on a design. To decrease weight, Lindbergh refuses to install radios or heavy equipment and plans to navigate by "dead reckoning" . In the race to complete the aircraft ahead of schedule, workers at the factory agree to work 24-hour shifts. Lindbergh learns that two pilots, who were vying for the Orteig Prize, were killed during their flight test. When the Ryan aircraft is complete, Lindbergh flies his new aircraft to St. Louis, and then on to New York. Unable to sleep, Lindbergh leaves his hotel room and goes to Roosevelt Field, where his aircraft is being filled with three hundred gallons of fuel. To decrease weight, he even eliminates the parachute. Because of limited space in the cockpit, the magnetic compass was placed in an awkward position. A young woman offers her mirror, which is then glued into place for the pilot's view. When Lindbergh is not watching, Mahoney slips a Saint Christopher medal into the pilot's lunch bag. With the weather clearing, Lindbergh and the heavy Spirit of St. Louis trundle down the muddy runway and barely clear the treetops at the end of the field. Every hour, Lindbergh switches fuel tanks to keep the weight load balanced. As he flies over Cape Cod, he realizes he has not slept in 28 hours. He remembers back to times when he slept on railroad tracks, on short bunk beds, and under a windmill. When Lindbergh begins to doze aboard the Spirit of St. Louis, he is awakened by a fly. When he flies over Nova Scotia and sees a motorcyclist below, he remembers his own Harley-Davidson, which he traded for his first aircraft, a war-surplus Curtiss Jenny. As Lindbergh flies over the seemingly endless Atlantic, he remembers barnstorming across the Midwest and performing dangerous stunts in a flying circus. At the 16th hour, as darkness descends, he worries that an engine cylinder might crack from the cold. The sight of a "white ship", which he soon realizes is an iceberg, is evidence that he is near the Arctic Circle. After 18 hours, the aircraft's wings ice up and the engine stalls. The Spirit of St. Louis begins to drop, but the ice breaks off in the warmer air and he is able to restart the engine. Back on course, Lindbergh discovers that his compasses are malfunctionings, forcing him to navigate by the stars. By dawn, he is so tired he falls asleep, causing the aircraft to circle and descend, but sunlight reflecting off the mirror awakens him in time to regain control. After Lindbergh sees a seagull and realizes he is close to land, he tries without success to hail a fisherman below. He soon sights land and determines from map features that he has reached Dingle Bay, Ireland. As he reaches for one of his sandwiches, Lindbergh discovers the hidden Saint Christopher medal. Hanging the medal on the instrument panel, he flies on, crossing the English Channel and then up the coast of France, following the Seine to Paris. Once again the engine cuts out, from lack of fuel, but he is able to recover by switching tanks. Evening descends and Lindbergh finally sees the lights of Paris ahead of him. As he approaches Le Bourget Airfield, he is confused by the spotlights. He doesn't understand that the strange movements below him are actually crowds of people. Exhausted and panicked, Lindbergh makes his descent whispering a prayer, "Oh, God help me!" After landing, hordes of people rush to Lindbergh, blind him with camera flashes, and carry him off triumphantly to the hangar. Tired and confused, Lindbergh eventually realizes that the crowds are cheering for his great achievement. When Lindbergh returns to New York, he is given a huge parade in his honor.The Stooges are mistaken for three armored car thieves after getting caught in crossfire. Captain Mullin  gives the boys a lie detector test, but finds no reason to hold them. He releases them, and they return to work at their restaurant, the Elite Café. Friend Gladys Harmon  stops by the restaurant just as one of the real armored car bandits flees the scene. They then chase the bandit to a spooky old mansion where they and their hideous hatchet man, Angel , are hiding. When the mob abducts Gladys, the Stooges come to her rescue and retrieve the stolen money.The film begins with military drums and a shot of a bearded Robert Wagner behind barbed wire wearing dirty fatigues with the dark shadow of missing chevrons. A long tracking shot follows his release from the stockade as the music becomes the Dies Irae and the screen credits roll. When the United States gets involved in the war, Gifford's National Guard unit is called to active service with the United States Army. Gifford's father-in-law is the Colonel ([[Robert Keith  commanding his regiment. Despite Gifford's wealth and commanding position in civilian life, he is not a commissioned officer but a platoon sergeant. As opposed to his callous treatment of sharecroppers viewed in flashback, Gifford becomes friends with three privates in his platoon whose company he prefers over those of his own rank. Though capably leading his platoon earns him a Silver Star medal for valour, Gifford outwardly shows signs of fear, battle fatigue, and neurosis. These weaknesses intensify when his father-in-law is killed. When a frightened lieutenant machine guns his three friends out of panic and inexperience, Gifford attempts to beat him to death with his rifle butt. Gifford is subdued, reduced in rank to private, and imprisoned. Gifford is summoned by Lt. Colonel Miles . Because he had earned a Silver Star, he is given a choice of being sentenced to the United States Disciplinary Barracks in Leavenworth or transferred to George Company, a de facto punishment company assigned to a dangerous area of the front lines. Gifford chooses the punishment company, which is commanded by Captain Grimes, a former First Sergeant . Captain Grimes insists everyone call him "Waco", wears no rank insignia and forbids military salutes lest he become a target for snipers. Everyone in George Company hates Waco except for some pre-war regular army comrades-in-arms , who act as Waco's personal bodyguards. Impressed by Gifford's combat record, Waco offers him a membership in his private circle as a radio operator. This ends when Gifford beats up Homeier for making remarks about his wife's photograph. Waco burns the photograph and exiles him to a forward platoon on outpost duty under the leadership of a lieutenant called Little Joe . Gifford forms a friendship with former sharecropper Willie Crawford . Gifford is sent back to company HQ with reports for Waco from Little Joe. Upon returning to the company Gifford is later tasked by Waco with leading a small six man patrol to check a town near the front lines. It is a dangerous assignment but Gifford executes it well. The patrol finds the town abandoned. Gifford takes a small sign off the front door of the town's church. The sign names the church and the town. While returning to their unit Gifford and his men spot a platoon strength Japanese Imperial Army unit armed with mortars heading back towards the hills near George Company's Headquarters. Gifford reports his findings to Waco. Waco accuses Gifford of not going to the town but hiding in the hills. Gifford tosses the sign from the town's church on Waco's desk. Then the headquarters receives a heavy artillery barrage from the Japanese mortars that Gifford warned Waco about. After the attack Waco apologizes to Gifford and commends him for his leadership on the patrol. Waco is then shot and killed by a Japanese sniper for returning a salute from some of his soldiers. Gifford leads several soldiers back up to Little Joe's platoon as reinforcements. They beat off several enemy attacks. Eventually after the last attack Gifford and Crawford are the sole survivors. With Crawford wounded in the leg, Crawford orders Gifford make it through the lines alone to warn the Company of an impending large attack. At first Gifford refuses to leave Crawford behind, but Crawford insists, pointing a pistol at Gifford and saying its an order. Gifford fights his way through Japanese soldiers to make his way back to the Company but he is wounded along the way. Upon reaching the company he finds that most of the Battalion has come up to begin a new offensive. Gifford warns them about the Japanese units that massing in the hills. He demands that help be sent to rescue Crawford. Just at that moment a patrol comes in with Crawford on a stretcher. Crawford and Gifford are told because of their wounds they are being shipped home. Gifford tells Crawford that he wants Crawford to live with him and his family at his mansion back home and he can have a job at Gifford's company.Thorne Sherman and his first mate Griswold deliver supplies to a group on a remote island. The group, consisting of a scientist named Marlowe Cragis, his research assistant Radford Baines, the scientist's daughter Ann, her fiancee Jerry Farrel, and a servant named Mario, meet the captain and his first mate and advise them to stay with them in a house because a hurricane is approaching. Thorne goes but Griswold stays with the boat. On the island, a doctor works to make humans half-size. This, apparently, will reduce world hunger as smaller humans would presumably eat less. Unfortunately, his experiments have also created some giant, venomous shrews. Thorne and Ann begin to fall in love, which angers Jerry. As the shrews run out of smaller animals to eat, they eat Griswold and close in on the people in the house, ultimately breaking in through the basement. It is discovered that the shrews have a poisonous bite, as a small single bite is enough to kill Mario. The poison kills Radford, and the shrews force the group  out of the house to escape to Thorne's boat. They do this by making impromptu armor out of oil drums and crawl to the beach lashed inside them. Jerry is killed by the shrews after he changes his mind and chases after the others, but the rest of the crew  manage a successful escape to the boat.The Civil War may be over back East, but prejudice still rules the West. A full-blooded Shoshone Indian named Lance Poole distinguished himself in the war, winning the Congressional Medal of Honor, only to return home to Medicine Bow, Wyoming, to something a far cry from a hero's welcome. Townspeople resent the fact that Lance and his father own a large and valuable piece of land. A doctor refuses to treat Lance's father, who dies, while Lance himself is unable to even buy a drink in the local saloon. A loophole in a law involving homesteaders is used by biased attorney Verne Coolan to strip Lance of his property. Lance turns to a female lawyer, Orrie Masters, who fails to acquire the necessary petition signatures they need to overturn the law. Coolan organizes sheepherders and attempts to drive out Lance by force. Shoshone tribesmen fight by Lance's side, using his cabin for a fort. Orrie calls in the U.S. Cavalry to create a truce, only to have them side with Coolan and the town. It's a lost cause. Lance is at least able to kill Coolan, but not before being already seriously wounded himself at the Shoshone barricade. Lance Poole then turns the responsibility for the surviving women and children over to the only surviving male child, who leads them away from the barricade and presumably in the direction of the reservation. Afterward, Lance puts on his civil war sergeants major uniform, and walks out to the cavalry commander and his former lawyer. The commander salutes Poole first, as that is the custom when greeting a medal of honor recipient. Lance then drops dead from an apparent loss of blood.In the times of austerity after the Second World War a failing factory's owner hands the factory over to the workers to run it for themselves.Langan plays Lt. Col. Glenn Manning, an officer in the U.S. Army who suffers serious burns to over 90% of his body [and hair loss] following an inadvertent exposure to plutonium radiation from a bomb blast. He miraculously survives the explosion and his burns completely heal, but the radiation causes him to abnormally grow into a 60-foot-tall giant. At this size, his heart is unable to supply sufficient blood to his brain and he gradually goes insane. Army doctors attempt to halt and reverse his growth with a formula, but after getting injected with the cure, he grabs the needle and spears one of the doctors with it, killing him on the spot. He then escapes from confinement, "kidnaps" his girlfriend, Carol Forrest , and wreaks havoc in Las Vegas before being cornered by the Army at the Boulder Dam. After releasing Carol he is shot and appears to fall to his death in the Colorado River.Frenchmen Mario and Jo, Dutch Bimba and Italian Luigi are stuck in the isolated South American town of Las Piedras. Surrounded by desert, the town's only link to the outside world is a small airport, but the airfare is beyond the means of the men. There is little opportunity for employment aside from the American corporation that dominates the town, Southern Oil Company , which operates the nearby oil fields and owns a walled compound within the town. SOC is suspected of unethical practices such as exploiting local workers and taking the law into its own hands, but the townspeople's dependence upon it is such that they suffer in silence. Mario is a sarcastic Corsican playboy, who treats his devoted lover, Linda, with disdain. Jo is an aging ex-gangster who just recently found himself stranded in the town. Bimba is an intense, quiet individual whose father was murdered by the Nazis, and who himself worked for three years in a salt mine. Luigi, Mario's roommate, is a jovial, hardworking individual, who has just learned that he is dying from cement dust in his lungs. Mario befriends Jo due to their common background of having lived in Paris, but a rift develops between Jo and the other cantina regulars because of his combative, arrogant personality. A massive fire erupts at one of the SOC oil fields. The only way to extinguish the flames and cap the well is an explosion caused by nitroglycerine. With short notice and lack of proper equipment, it must be transported within jerrycans placed in two large trucks from the SOC headquarters, 300 miles away. Due to the poor condition of the roads and the highly volatile nature of nitroglycerine, the job is considered too dangerous for the unionized SOC employees. The company foreman, Mr. O' Brien, recruits truck drivers from the local community. Despite the dangers, many of the locals volunteer, lured by the high pay: US$2,000 per driver. This is a fortune to them, and the money is seen by some as the only way out of their dead-end lives. The pool of applicants is narrowed down to four handpicked drivers: Mario, Bimba and Luigi are chosen, along with a German named Smerloff. Smerloff fails to appear on the appointed day, so Jo, who knows O' Brien from his bootlegging days, is substituted in his place. The other drivers suspect that Jo murdered Smerloff in order to facilitate his own hiring. Jo and Mario transport the nitroglycerin in one vehicle; Luigi and Bimba in the other, with thirty minutes separating them in order to limit potential casualties. The drivers are forced to deal with a series of physical and mental obstacles, including a stretch of extremely rough road called "the washboard", a construction barricade that forces them to teeter around a rotten platform above a precipice, and a boulder blocking the road. Jo finds that his nerves are not what they used to be, and the others confront Jo about his increasing cowardice. Finally, Luigi and Bimba's truck explodes without warning, killing them both. Mario and Jo arrive at the scene of the explosion only to find a large crater rapidly filling with oil from a pipeline ruptured in the blast. Jo exits the vehicle to help Mario navigate through the oil-filled crater. The truck, however, is in danger of becoming bogged down and during their frantic attempts to prevent it from getting stuck, Mario runs over Jo. Although the vehicle is ultimately freed from the muck, Jo is mortally wounded. On their arrival at the oil field, Mario and Jo are hailed as heroes, but Jo is dead and Mario collapses from exhaustion. Upon his recovery, Mario heads home in the same truck, now freed of its dangerous cargo. He collects double the wages following his friends' deaths, and refuses the appointed chauffeur offered by SOC. Mario jubilantly drives down a mountain road, while a party at the cantina back in town where Mario's friends eagerly await his arrival. Mario swerves recklessly and intentionally, having cheated death so many times on the same road. He takes one corner too fast and plunges through the guardrail to his death. Linda, dancing in the cantina, appears to faint.A group of scientists land on a remote island in the Pacific to search for a previous expedition that disappeared and to continue research about the effects of radiation from the Bikini Atoll nuclear tests on the island's plant and sea life. They learn to their horror that the earlier group of scientists have been eaten by mutated giant crabs that have gained intelligence by absorbing the minds of their victims. Members of the current expedition are systematically attacked and killed by the crabs, which are invulnerable to most weaponry because of the mutation in their cell structure. Finally, they discover the crabs are the cause of the earthquakes and landslides that are destroying the island. As the remaining expedition members struggle to survive on the ever-shrinking island, they must also find a way to stop the crabs before they reproduce and invade the oceans of the world.Rance Devlin intends to build his own empire in the American west, using his Black Raiders and allied Indians to do so. Only US Army scout Tom Bridger, allied with Pony Express rider Ed Marr and US Army cavalry Capt. Frank Carter can stop him.Sweepstakes winner Joe is taken to the cleaners by con men G. Y. Prince  and R. O. Broad  by investing his winnings in Consolidated Fujiyama California Smog Bags. The Stooges head to their offices to get Joe's money back. Instead, they find two sympathetic businessmen  who offer to pay back the losses if Moe, Larry and Joe will pose as juvenile wards for a rich and eccentric millionaire, Montgomery M. Montgomery . But Montgomery is actually Prince's and Broad's gang leader, and plotting to kill the Stooges.Set in 1941, the film follows an American who possesses a list of Greek resistance leaders. After getting the list, he is pursued by all grades of people: resistance fighters, Nazis and collaborators.Johnny Tremain is an arrogant and exceptionally skilled apprentice silversmith to Mr. Lapham, who dreams of one day owning his own shop and becoming wealthy and respected. All of this is abruptly taken from him when his hand is damaged in a silver accident. He ends up joining the Sons of Liberty in the movement for American independence. Along the way Johnny befriends several historical giants including Paul Revere, Samuel Adams, and Joseph Warren. The story reaches its climax with the start of the American Revolutionary War and the actions taken by so many notable figures of the time to lead a young America into her first battles.Mike Kells is assigned by the State Department to fly to Salzburg and meet his old friend Sam Carew, who will pass a top-secret document to him. A passenger on the plane, Joan Ross, takes a liking to Mike and expresses a desire to see him again. Carew ignores him because he is apparently being tailed by two men. Mike boards the same plane and sits near a woman Sam seems to know. In a tunnel, Mike is shocked to see the two men throw Carew's body off the train. Col. Cagle and Sgt. Guelvada of the U.S. Army tersely interrogate Mike as to what went wrong. They believe the woman's involved and order him to travel to Trieste to find her. Guelvada goes along. She is identified as Janine Betki, a singer and a possible Russian agent. Mike goes to a club where she once performed. He runs into Joan there instead. And after a strange man slips Mike some information, the man and Mike are both nearly run down by a car. Janine is located and explains to Mike that she not only worked with Carew but loved him. But the colonel insists Janine is a double agent. Joan then contacts Mike and claims a sniper tried to kill her. But after he leaves, it is Joan who is revealed to be the Russian agent. Mike deduces that Carew hid microfilm in a wristwatch. He retrieves it, only to have Joan try to take it from him at gunpoint. In the end, though, Mike prevails, then arranges for the document and also Janine to get safe passage to America.After being dumped by his fiancée, hard-drinking and depressed Mark Cormack  loses his job in the Los Angeles district attorney's office and serves as bouncer in a Las Vegas casino. A wheelchair-using stranger Barzland  hires him to locate a ruby that disappeared in a Caribbean plane crash. He lures Cormack into doing the job by telling him it may be in the possession of the very woman who jilted him. The ex-detective flies to remote Santo Rosario to find the stone and investigate the mystery. When he finds his old flame he finds that her husband is in prison. Cormack, again falling for Janet, is convinced into helping him break out of jail. But Janet has other plans.Dr. Eugene Ferguson , a renowned American brain surgeon, and his wife Helen  are vacationing in Latin America when a revolution breaks out. They are taken against their will to the country's dictator, Raoul Farrago , who urgently needs a life-saving operation. Over the next few days, while Ferguson trains assistants for the delicate operation, he witnesses various acts of brutality by the regime, especially by Colonel Adragon , but his Hippocratic Oath compels him to do his best. Roland Gonzales , the rebel leader, kidnaps Helen to pressure her husband into making a fatal surgical "mistake." His message to Ferguson is intercepted by Isabel Farrago , the patient's wife, and the operation is a success. Fortunately for the doctor, Helen is released unharmed when Farrago dies soon afterwards and his government is overthrown.In 1943, at the height of the World War II Battle of the Atlantic, Captain Pat Bannon, skipper of the fishing trawler Daniel Webster, unloads his catch in his home port of Gloucester, Massachusetts. He reluctantly agrees to transport Margaret McLean to Trabo, a small community in Newfoundland. Shorthanded, he hires Danish sailor Konrad, and the Daniel Webster sails for the Grand Banks fishing grounds. Once at sea, Holger reports that the radio has been sabotaged. As Bannon knows all of the crew well except for Konrad and fellow Dane Holger, he suspects one of them or even Margaret of being a German agent. Sailing at night in heavy fog, they hear gunfire. They search for survivors and come upon the damaged Den Magre Kvinde , a Danish square rigged sailing ship. She appears to have been damaged in a storm and then shelled. Aboard, they discover only the dazed Captain Skalder and a dead body. He claims that his crew abandoned ship in a storm, and that he was subsequently attacked by a U-boat. The Daniel Webster tows the stricken Kvinde to Trabo. Konrad is suspicious: he notes that the German gunfire hit above the waterline , and that while the tarpaulin covering the ship's boat is riddled with bullet holes, the boat itself is undamaged. Bannon and Konrad separately sneak below decks to search the hold. When they meet, Konrad has a pistol, but he gives it to Bannon to prove where his loyalties lay. They accidentally discover a second, hidden hold containing rack upon rack of torpedoes — the ship is a tender, covertly resupplying the U-boat "wolfpacks". They watch undetected as Holger enters the hold and uses a radio to signal the Germans. However, before the pair can alert the military, Skalder's crew arrives in boats, so they pretend they know nothing. Skalder plans to resupply the U-boats at Trabo. A Canadian flying boat lands in the harbor, and an officer inspects Skalder's papers. Finding nothing wrong, he informs Skalder that a corvette will arrive the next day to inspect his cargo. Bannon offers to leave one of his two Danish crewman as a witness, allowing him to rid himself of the spy Holger without arousing suspicion. Bannon leaves port, but once out of sight, one man remains aboard to sail to the nearest radio station, while Bannon and the rest take to the dories and return. Bannon sets up a night ambush; when the Germans come to take the villagers prisoner, the invaders are wiped out. Bannon and his men then set fire to the Kvinde under cover of darkness. In the resulting confusion, they board, overpower or kill the remainder of the crew, and free Margaret, who had been taken as a hostage. Skalder claims to have set the ship to blow up in twenty minutes. Bannon does not believe him, but takes the ship out to sea, intending to destroy her safely away from the village. He and his men rig some of the torpedoes to explode. The Kvinde is approached by two U-boats seeking supplies. Skalder manages to get a gun and wounds his guard, Konrad, before he is killed. Bannon helps Konrad into a boat and flees under German gunfire. When the ship explodes, the resulting wave swamps the submarines, sinking them.The story starts with the recounting of the forced exile which has befallen the Christian royal family of the Viking kingdom of Scandia - King Aguar, his wife, and his son Prince Valiant - by the Viking rebels led by the usurper Sligon, a worshipper of the old Norse god pantheon. Aguar has since come under the protection of King Arthur, and once Valiant has grown to a man, he is sent to Camelot to undergo training as a knight under the tutelage of Aguar's family friend, the noble knight of the Round Table, Sir Gawain. During his wanderings, Valiant witnesses a clandestine meeting between a group of Sligon's Vikings and a black-clad knight. He is discovered, but with slyness and improvisation manages to elude his pursuers. During his flight, Valiant runs into Gawain, and after becoming convinced that Valiant is indeed the son of Aguar and hearing the prince's story of the mysterious Black Knight, who is not unknown to the knights of Camelot, Gawain takes Valiant to his king. Valiant is accepted by the king as a prospective knight, but first he has, like any other knight apparent, to undergo the rigors of squirehood. One of the royal knights, Sir Brack, takes an extraordinary interest in Valiant and offers to train him, but Valiant is instead assigned to Gawain. Some time later, Sir Brack offers to take Valiant to the place where the young prince has seen the Black Knight in order to backtrack the mysterious figure. Once there, they separate, but shortly afterwards Valiant is ambushed by a group of bowmen and barely escapes with his life and an arrow in his back. Wounded, he stumbles into the territory of King Luke and is taken in by his daughters, Aleta and Ilene. Upon recovery, Aleta and Valiant fall in love, but King Luke disapproves of Valiant's Viking origin and so their relationship must remain a secret for the time being. From Aleta, Valiant also learns that her younger sister Ilene has a crush on Sir Gawain. Valiant returns to Camelot and discovers to his shock that Gawain, who had grown worried over his squire, had tried to find him and run into an ambush by the Black Knight as well, likewise having escaped within an inch of his life. Some time later, Aleta and Ilene come to Camelot to attend a tournament held in their honor; as an added price, the winner of this joust will win Aleta's hand. Valiant dons Gawain's armor, who is too seriously wounded to participate, in order to win Aleta, but he fails and is unmasked. But then another contender appears and wins the bout before falling off his horse - and this knight turns out to be Sir Gawain himself. Awakening on his sickbed, Gawain beholds Aleta and falls head over heels in love with her, and out of respect for his patron, Valiant does not dare tell him the truth. For his act of assumption, Valiant is punished to being confined to his quarters and attending to his master. But then a mysterious messenger comes to the castle to see Sir Brack, and the same night King Aguar's seal is thrown through the window of Sir Gawain's chambers and lands at Valiant's feet. Realizing that his parents are in trouble, Valiant immediately leaves Camelot, leaving a bewildered Aleta behind. But as he prepares to return to his home, he is ambushed and captured by Sligon's Vikings and the Black Knight, who reveals himself as Sir Brack. Brack has made a pact with Sligon: For delivering King Aguar's family, Sligon will assist Brack in conquering Camelot and assuming rulership over Britain. Shortly, Aleta, who is unwilling to let Valiant run off, arrives at the scene and is captured herself, and the two are brought to Thule, where Sligon prepares their execution and that of Valiant's parents. However, a group of Christian Vikings led by Aguar and Valiant's old friend Boltar prepare to stage a revolution, and Boltar infiltrates the castle. Valiant manages to escape his cell and team up with Boltar, who intends to assassinate Sligon while Valiant is to give an attack signal to their cohorts once Sligon has fallen. But Valiant is discovered before Boltar manages to kill Sligon, and during his struggle with a guard a false signal is given which makes the Christian Vikings attack too early. Just as things seem bleak, Valiant manages to set fire to several parts of the castle, throwing the defenders into confusion, and eventually slays Sligon in single combat. Some time later, Valiant returns with Aleta to Camelot and accuses Brack of treachery before the king and the assembled Round Table. Brack calls for a judicial duel to the death, and despite Gawain's protests and his offer to fight in Valiant's stead, the young prince accepts the challenge and succeeds in killing the traitor with his father's sword after a long and hard fight. Following its resolution, Valiant offers Aleta back to his master, but Gawain stays his hand; during the long period of worry over their loved ones, the old kight has finally come to learn the truth, and he and Ilene have fallen in love with each other. In the end, Valiant is finally made a fully privileged Knight of the Round Table.Myles Falworth  and his sister Meg  live in obscurity on a farm in Crosbey-Dale with their guardian Diccon Bowman ([[Rhys Williams . This is to protect them from the attainder placed upon their family by King Henry IV of England  because their father has been  accused of treason and murdered by the Earl of Alban ([[David Farrar . When a hunting party comprising the Earl of Alban, the lord of Crosbey-Dale, and another nobleman, Sir Robert, stop at their farm for refreshment, they are repulsed by Myles to stop them molesting his sister. This confrontation accelerates Diccon's plans to send them to Mackworth Castle. The Earl of Mackworth , a close friend of their father, becomes their protector, and he sees in Myles the man who can rid England of the evil machinations of the Earl of Alban. Myles is trained to be a knight, is knighted by the king, and kills the Earl of Alban in trial by combat, foiling Alban's attempt to seize the English crown. Myles then marries the Earl of Mackworth's daughter, Lady Anne .In 1780, General Benedict Arnold commands the Continental Army defences at West Point, New York. Major John Bolton , a dragoon officer assigned to counter-intelligence, intercepts and kills a British spy leaving the Storm King Tavern, and captures a letter found on the spy. He reports to Gen. Robert Howe , that the coded message was from the British spy calling himself "Gustavus" to "James Osborn", in care of Dr. Jonathan Odell of New York, stating that Arnold has taken command at West Point. The secret knowledge indicates that the spy is a "highly placed person". Bolton returns to the tavern, where one of his contacts, stableboy Ben Potter , tells him that the Tory wife of a redcoat, Mrs. Sally Cameron , is travelling under a flag of truce possibly carrying information to the enemy. She catches them searching her room, where Bolton takes her safe conduct pass after verbally sparring with her. Mrs. Cameron tries to seduce Bolton to obtain its return, but he rebuffs her. A messenger arrives with a package for "Mr. Moody," but when no one by that name can be found, Mrs. Cameron's escort steps forward to deliver the package to "Moody," who has been travelling, in uniform, as an American officer. Bolton recognizes him as an impostor, and in a struggle over the package, kills him. Other American officers arrest Bolton for murder and deliver him to Howe. A pass through the lines found hidden in his boot reveals that the impostor was actually Moody, a spy, who had another coded letter from Gustavus to Osborn in his possession. The package, a ream of blank paper, concealed a message to Gustavus from Osborn written in invisible ink requesting an urgent meeting to finalize an unknown arrangement. Howe proposes that Bolton "desert" to the British. Bolton agrees, aware that he could be hanged if the British discover his mission. With Moody's pass, Bolton passes through the British lines, but the British lieutenant on duty recognizes that he is not the same man who previously used the pass and follows him. In New York, Bolton calls upon Dr. Odell , trying to deliver the letter. The lieutenant bursts in to arrest Bolton, but when he addresses him as "Mr. Moody", Odell takes Boulton and the letter to British Army Major John André ([[Michael Wilding  for deciphering, using a pair of spectacles to isolate key words. Bolton claims that he was Moody's source of information. He offers to continue working for the British. Odell bluntly tells Bolton that he thinks his story is too neat and believes him to be a Rebel spy. But André takes an immediate liking to Bolton. He invites him to a dinner party that evening, where Bolton suffers an anxious moment when Sally Cameron  is present. Bolton's explanation corroborates information about the murder that André had checked, and Sally provides the perfect eyewitness. Bolton is sent with two Tory agents to sabotage the chain barrier across the Hudson River before a British attack on the American position at Verplanck, so that British warships can pass.The film is in error placing the chain between Stony Point and Verplanck. It was however the location of the strategic King's Ferry crossing of the Hudson, held by the Americans in 1780, and used a year later by Washington's army marching to Yorktown. André gives one a letter to deliver afterwards at the Storm King Tavern. Bolton drowns one agent, but when he tries to arrest the other, is confronted by an armed Ben Potter, who still thinks that Bolton is a murderer and deserter. The agent disarms Ben and nearly kills Bolton. Ben finds his gun and shoots the agent. At a secret meeting with Howe, Bolton uses spectacles to decipher the letter, which points to Gustavus as someone at West Point with authority. Bolton volunteers to return to New York to identify the mysterious James Osborn. Odell more than ever believes Bolton is a spy, but Bolton convinces André that the British agents completed their mission. To trap him, Odell writes a false dispatch from "Mr. Osborn" for Bolton to steal. At another dinner, Bolton notices that Sally Cameron only pretends to toast the King. She has also fallen in love with him and warns Boulton about Odell's trap. The British attack on Verplanck is crushed and results in Boulton's arrest as a Rebel spy. He is saved from hanging by André, who intervenes for him after Sally confesses her feelings for Bolton and begs him to vouch on Bolton's behalf. He does so, despite her refusal of his marriage proposal. Putting duty before personal considerations, André asks Bolton to accompany him to a meeting between Gustavus and Osborn aboard the sloop Vulture. André assures Bolton that Gustavus and Osborn have conjured a quick end to the war. The wily Gustavus changes the meeting at the last moment to the house of a Tory sympathizer and orders André to come alone. Bolton persuades André to go in uniform, and not in civilian clothing, lest he be captured as a spy. Soon after, Odell detects Bolton warning American shore batteries of the British presence, but Bolton escapes by swimming ashore to the American garrison. The American commander, Col. Jameson , is sceptical of Bolton's loyalties and stubbornly prevents him from capturing Gustavus and Osborn. Gustavus escapes. Osborn has been captured and Bolton realizes that Benedict Arnold is Gustavus. To his horror, Bolton learns that Osborn is André, and worse, that he changed into civilian clothes trying to escape. At André's court-martial, Bolton testifies that André entered the lines in uniform and changed into civilian clothing only at Arnold's treacherous orders. The court reluctantly sentences André to be executed as a spy. André pledges his continuing friendship with Bolton and asks him to protect Sally from any retribution. Bolton brokers a last-minute deal to exchange André for Arnold, but André considers the suggestion a taint on his honour and declines.Brian Hawke, an officer aboard the British merchant ship The Monsoon, volunteers for a dangerous mission to infiltrate the pirate's base at Diego-Suarez on the coast of Madagascar. He is to pose as a deserter, and to make his disguise more convincing, he is given twenty lashes. Once he has arrived at Diego-Suarez he is greeted with an air of suspicion by the pirates, especially Captain Roc Brasiliano. Brasiliano orders him to appear before a tribunal of the Coast Captains to decide his fate. If they do not like him, he will be executed. Meanwhile, Hawke has caught the eye of Spitfire Stevens - the only woman amongst the Coast Captains - who inherited her position from her father. At the tribunal Hawke duels one of the pirates with boarding pikes managing to outfight him. Hawke is therefore given permission to join the pirates, and joins Brasiliano's crew to prove his worth. While cruising the shipping lanes, they come across a Moghul vessel crammed with luxuries and vast wealth. After a tough battle, it is stormed, and looted. Captured aboard is Patma, the daughter of the Moghul Emperor, who is disguised by her chaperone as just another ordinary woman. She falls in love with Hawke after he rescues her from the burning ship, admitting he is only the third man she has ever seen. When they return to Diego-Suarez, Spitfire is angered by the arrival of Patma. Jealously, when Patma is put up for auction, she outbids Hawke  and takes the Indian woman into her service. In a candid moment Spitfire tells Hawke she is planning to leave for England, via Brazil where she can catch a legal ship. She wants Hawke to accompany her there, after which he can take ownership of her ship. Brasiliano's hatred of Hawke grows, as he has a fancy for Spitfire himself. Hawke has slowly been gathering information on the base, and has acquired a map of the defences. It is planned that the Royal Navy ships will sail into the harbour, with Hawke disabling the cannons. Hawke gives a signal to the British ships with a flare, and makes sure the Moghul Princess is ready to be evacuated to safety. Unfortunately Hawke's plans are interrupted by Brasiliano. Hawke is unmasked as a spy and tied to a stake on the beach where he is to be drowned and eaten by crabs. In a sullen gesture of her feelings for him, Spitfire makes to cut his throat to end his suffering, but instead cuts the ropes binding him to the stake. At that moment the British warship enters the bay and the pirates hurry to repel it, expecting to easily sink it as they did a Portuguese warship that recently attempted to storm the harbour. To their surprise the cannons have been double-shotted and explode. Faced with imminent defeat and the threat of a hanging, Brasiliano tries a final gamble to escape. He puts the Princess at the front of his ship, as he sails past the British warship, knowing they will not dare fire on her. Brasiliano now plans to head for Genoa beyond the reach of English Law, where he intends to settle down and marry Spitfire. However, Hawke has slipped aboard and manages to reach the hostage, escorting her to safety. Hawke and Brasiliano then square off for an epic final sword duel on the decks of the ship.Ben and Me opens with two tour groups simultaneously visiting a statue of Benjamin Franklin. The human tour group discusses Franklin's life and achievements, while the leader of a mouse tour group reveals the contributions of a mouse, Amos, to Franklin's career. Narrated by Amos, through his memoirs, the mouse recalls how he first met and befriended Benjamin Franklin, eventually aiding in his publishing, inventions, and political career. Amongst Amos' contributions were making bifocals, inspiring him to build the Franklin stove, and encouraging him to print an event-oriented newspaper, the Pennsylvania Gazette. After Ben's experiments with electricity endanger Amos' life, Amos leaves Ben and moves back in with his family. Franklin is sent to England as part of a colonial attempt to reason with the king, but the mission is a failure. Franklin says, "The King was unreasonable. He wouldn't listen." Amos, seeing this—and the confusion and anger of the colonists—realises that he could help, but initially refuses. Amos and Franklin finally resolve their disagreements in the midst of the American Revolution, and Amos plays a key role aiding Thomas Jefferson with the drafting of the Declaration of Independence.Ray Milland plays Dr. Allan Fields a nuclear physicist who works for the Atomic Energy Commission in Washington, D.C.. Fields is also a spy working for an unnamed foreign power. Through a series of elaborate devices and plans, Fields takes secret photos of his top-secret work and passes the secrets, through a vast network chain in New York City, to an apparently enemy country. The latest canister of microfilm the doctor sends out is picked up by authorities after the courier is killed in a traffic accident in New York's Central Park with the documents in his possession. Fields comes under suspicion by the FBI. Now scared and paranoid, he stays overnight in a cheap hotel. He is waiting for a call on the hall phone to give him instructions on his next move. After he has finally contacted, he is tailed by an FBI agent to the Empire State Building. While at the observatory tower, Fields meets his contact. The alert F.B.I. agent spots this and pursues Fields who climbs even higher, at one point Fields fights off the agent causing him to plummet to his death. He escapes the building with papers in hand that will get him out of the country, but he becomes shaken by the sight of the dead agent on the sidewalk. The doctor finally breaks down back in his hotel room after realizing what he has done and gives himself up to the F.B.I. the next day.Joseph Frail—doctor, gambler, gunslinger—rides into town looking to set up a business. He passes by the "hanging tree," an old oak with a thick branch over which has been slung a noose. He rescues Rune, a sluice robber who has been shot, and forces him into indentured servitude. A stagecoach is robbed and overturned, killing the driver and a male passenger. But the daughter of the male passenger is believed to have survived. A search party is formed, and Elizabeth Mahler is found by the town opportunist "Frenchy." Cripled by burns, blindness and dehydration received from overexposure, Elizabeth is moved into the doctor's house to begin her recovery. The placement gains much chagrin from the town's women, who believe that she may be paying for her medical care through illicit behavior. Frenchy sneaks in under the guise of trying to strike a business deal with Elizabeth, but instead tries to forcefully kiss her. Frail witness the aggression and chases Frenchy back to town. Frail beats him up and threatens to kill him. There are many witnesses, including a mad faith healer, Dr. Grubb, who sees Frail's medical practice as a threat. Elizabeth regains her sight and makes romantic overtures toward Frail. He rejects her. She leaves in a huff, determined to strike it rich as a prospector so that she can pay off Frail and get out from under his control. She teams up with Rune and Frenchy, who plan to buy a claim and set up a sluice. To get money, she pawns a family heirloom. It is worthless, but Frail tells the pawnbroker to give her however much money she needs. Thus Frail secretly continues to control her. She finds out and asks Frail why he couldn't respond to her affection. He reveals that his wife had an affair with his own brother. He found them together, both dead, an apparent murder-suicide. In a rage, he burned down their house with their bodies in it. He tells Elizabeth he is "not allowed to forget." The trio of Elizabeth, Frenchy and Rune strike it rich, finding a "glory hole{{dn}}" of gold under a tree stump. They ride into town as heroes, tossing pieces of gold to the townsfolk. The gaiety quickly turns into a riot lead by the lawless members. While the lawful citizens of the town are engaged in firefighting, Frenchy takes advantage of the comotion to make advances on Elizabeth. Her disinterest sparks his brutal physical assault as he attempts to rape her. Frail again catches Frenchy during this new aggressive act, but this time kills him. The lawless portion of rioting people in town witness this. Seeing his opportunity to remove his "competition", the faith healer incites the mob to lynch Frail. They carry him to the hanging tree and string him up. Rune and Elizabeth rush in carrying their gold and the deed to the claim. Elizabeth offers everything to the townsfolk if they will let Frail live. As the mob members fight each other to grab the gold and claim document, the lynch party disperses. Elizabeth feels she has finally paid Frail back. Rune takes the noose off and Frail calls out to Elizabeth to come back.In 1940, after the fall of France, the fictitious Channel Island of Armorel is occupied by a small garrison of German troops under the benign command of Hauptmann Weiss . He finds that the hereditary ruler, the Suzerain, is away in the army, leaving the Provost in charge. Back in London, the Ministry of Agriculture realise that during the evacuation of the island, Venus, a prize pedigree cow, has been left behind. They petition the War Office to do something urgently, and Major Morland , is assigned the task of rescuing Venus. When he realises that the Suzerain's sister, Nicola Fallaize  is in Wales, serving as an army cook, she is quickly posted to the War Office and the two, with a sergeant and a naval officer, are landed on the island. They contact the Provost and discover that the Hauptmann, a cattle breeder in civilian life, is about to the have the cow shipped to Germany. In a race against the Germans discovering their presence, they spirit the cow onto a beach and via a special craft, onto a motorboat which takes them to England. The story is based on a real incident told to Tickell after the war by an army officer who was involved in a similar event. The fictitious island of Armorel may be based on Sark, one of the locations where the film was shot. Sark, inhabited by 500 people, also has a feudal ruler, the Seigneur, as depicted in the play The Dame of Sark.{{by whom}} Like all the other Channel Islands, it was occupied by German troops 1940–1945. British commandos made two unsuccessful raids in 1942–43.Ralph Cotter is a career criminal who escapes from prison, then murders his partner in crime. Along the way he attempts to woo his ex-partner's sister  by threatening to expose her role in his escape. Cotter quickly gets back into the crime business, only to be shaken down by corrupt local cops.A brash American movie producer, Steve Canfield , wants Russian composer Peter Illyich Boroff  to write music for his next picture, which is being made in Paris. But when the composer expresses his wish to stay in Paris, three comically bumbling operatives, Comrades Brankov , Bibinski  and Ivanov , are sent from Moscow to take Boroff back. Canfield manages to corrupt them with decadent western luxuries  and talks them into allowing Boroff to stay. He also arranges for his leading lady, Peggy Dayton , to ‘convince’ Boroff to cooperate. Fearful of his own precarious position, a commissar at the Ministry in Moscow summons a dedicated and humourless workaholic operative, Nina ‘Ninotchka’ Yoschenko , to bring all four men back home. Canfield succeeds in romancing her, despite her determination not to fall prey to the decadent attractions of Paris. He even proposes marriage. She and Boroff are horrified when they realise what changes have been made to Boroff’s music. They decide to return to Moscow. Canfield does not give up, arranging for the pliable Brankov, Bibinski and Ivanov to be sent back to Paris, knowing that they will be seduced again by the city's charms. Ninotchka is sent after them, giving Canfield time to convince her to give in to her love for him.Callow, rich Ensign Willis Seward "Willie" Keith ([[Robert Francis  reports for duty aboard the Caine, his first assignment. Homeported in Pearl Harbor, he is disappointed to find the Caine to be a small, battle-scarred destroyer-minesweeper. Its gruff captain, Lieutenant Commander William H. DeVriess , has almost completely discarded discipline, and the crew has become slovenly and superficially undisciplined &ndash; although their performance is, in fact, excellent. Keith has already met the executive officer, Lieutenant Stephen Maryk , and is introduced to the cynical communications officer, novelist Lieutenant Thomas Keefer . The captain is soon replaced by Lieutenant Commander Phillip Queeg , a no-nonsense veteran and graduate of the United States Naval Academy. He quickly attempts to re-instill discipline into the crew. The next day, the Caine is assigned to tow a target for gunnery practice. While Queeg is distracted berating Keith and Keefer over a crewman's appearance, he cuts off the helmsman's warning. After the Caine continues in a circle and cuts the towline, Queeg tries to cover up his responsibility. Other incidents serve to undermine Queeg's authority. When strawberries go missing from the officers' mess, the captain goes to absurd lengths to hunt down the culprit. Despite being told by one of his officers that the mess boys had eaten them, Queeg insists on believing otherwise. He relates a story to Maryk and Keefer of when he, as an ensign, was commended for unmasking a cheese thief. More seriously, under enemy fire, Queeg abandons escorting a group of landing craft during an amphibious assault long before they reach the fiercely defended shore, instead dropping a yellow dye marker in the water and leaving the landing craft to fend for themselves, much to the crew's disgust. Afterwards, Queeg speaks to his officers, not explicitly apologizing, but bending enough to ask for their support. His disgruntled subordinates do not respond. Keefer begins trying to convince Maryk that he should relieve Queeg on the basis of mental illness under Article 184 of Navy Regulations. Maryk begins keeping a journal, documenting Queeg's behavior. Keefer then convinces Maryk and Keith to join him in presenting their case to Admiral William F. Halsey, Jr.. While aboard Halsey's flagship, it occurs to Keefer that all of Queeg's documented actions could be interpreted as reasonable attempts to instill discipline, leaving them open to a charge of conspiring to mutiny. When Halsey's aide tells the Caine officers that Halsey will see them, Keefer talks Maryk and Keith out of it. Matters come to a head during a violent typhoon. Maryk urgently recommends that they steer into the waves and take on ballast, but Queeg refuses to deviate from the fleet-ordered heading and declines Maryk's request for ballast, as he fears that it would foul the fuel lines with salt water. When Queeg appears to become paralyzed, Maryk relieves him, with Keith's support.  Upon returning to port, Maryk and Keith face a court-martial for mutiny. After questioning them and Keefer, Lieutenant Barney Greenwald  reluctantly accepts the job of Maryk's defense counsel, which a number of other lawyers have already turned down. The proceedings do not go well, as the self-serving Keefer has carefully managed to cover himself and denies any complicity. Navy psychiatrist Dr. Dixon  testifies that Queeg is not mentally ill, but when Queeg is called to testify, he exhibits obvious paranoid behavior under Greenwald's tough cross-examination. Maryk is acquitted, and Keith is spared any charges. The Caine officers celebrate the trial's results at a hotel. Keefer shows up, telling Maryk privately he did not have the guts not to. Then a drunken Greenwald appears and, clears his "guilty conscience". He berates the officers for not appreciating the years of danger and hardship endured by Queeg, a career navy man. He then lambastes Maryk, Keith, and finally Keefer, for not supporting their captain when he most needed it and gets Maryk and Keith to admit that if they had given Queeg the support he had asked for, he might not have frozen during the typhoon. Greenwald then turns to the man who, in his opinion, should really have been on trial: Keefer. He denounces him as the real "author" of the mutiny, who "hated the Navy" and manipulated the others while keeping his own hands officially clean. The lawyer exposes Keefer's double-dealing in front of the other officers, throws a glassful of champagne in his face and tells Keefer that if he wishes to do anything about the drink in the face, the two could fight outside. Keefer makes no challenge and the other officers depart, leaving Keefer alone in the room. A few days later, Keith reports to his new ship and is surprised to find himself once again serving under now-Commander DeVriess. DeVriess lets the new lieutenant, junior grade know that he will start with a clean slate.Johnny Hawks is a man who made his name fighting Indians. Returning to the West after the Civil War he must now keep wronged Sioux warriors from massacring the Oregon-bound wagon train he is leading and the nearby fort.The story concerns 13th-century Saxon nobleman Walter of Gurnie , who, after sparking an unsuccessful rebellion against the Norman conquerors of his homeland, sets out to seek his fortune in the Far East. In the company of his friend Tristam , Walter makes the acquaintance of megalomaniac Mongol warlord Bayan . The "Black Rose" of the title is the beauteous Maryam , with whom Walter fell in love while both were prisoners of Bayan. Journeying farther east, Walter and Tristam arrive in China, where they are treated with deference - so long as they never try to leave. Eventually escaping his Chinese hosts, but leaving the Black Rose behind, Walter returns to his native country. Previously denounced by King Edward  because of his role in the a Saxon rebellion, Walter is welcomed back with open arms because of all the cultural and scientific wonders  he has brought back from China. Bayan sends the Black Rose to England to join Walter there.Patrick Martin , known as P.M., is a wealthy attorney and rancher in the border town of Nogales, Arizona. He returns home to find his brother Donald  hiding in his garage. A former drunkard, Donald had been sent to the penitentiary five years previously for killing a man in a barroom brawl. It was in self-defense but P.M. hadn't defended his brother and he was convicted. Donald has escaped and wants his brother to help him across the Santa Cruz River into the Mexico-side Nogales, where his wife  and children  are in dire straits. The straits get even more dire when P.M. tells him the river is flooded and it will be days before anyone can cross. P.M. is all atwitter because his wife Nora , whom he married after Donald had gone to prison, doesn't know about his jail-bird brother. He introduces Donald to Nora and the rest of his Cadillac Cowboy and ranch society friends as an old friend, Eric Bell, and is kept busy trying to make sure Donald doesn't find anything harder than ginger ale to drink. Donald gets a telephone call telling him that his family has gone from dire straits to destitution, and when P.M. refuses to help through his contacts in the Mexico side of Nogales, Donald knocks him down, grabs a couple of bottles of whiskey and dashes out of the house into the rain.After the Korean War, Americans Tony  and Felix  own a tramp boat, the Ruby, which they use for small-scale smuggling around the Caribbean, along with a third crewman, Jimmy Jean . One day, their bartender contact, Miguel , introduces them to an American businessman who has been enjoying the company of beautiful but passport-less European goddess Irena . He has to return to Detroit, but wants to arrange for her to get to another island. They are reluctant, but $1000 proves very tempting. On the voyage, Tony starts falling in love with her. Knowing the kind of woman she is, Felix does his best to protect his partner by warning Irena to stay away from Tony. However, Felix starts falling for her himself. When she disembarks, Tony goes with her, ending his partnership with Felix. Tony and Jimmy Jean take on a shady job, but are intercepted by the authorities. They have to abandon ship and swim to a nearby island to avoid arrest. Tony takes a job on a cargo ship to get back to Irena. He also plans to kill Felix, correctly suspecting that his former partner tipped off the customs agents to get rid of the competition for Irena. However, while Tony is away, she goes to Felix and confesses she loves him. After a collision, Tony is trapped below deck under a girder with time running out; the ship is aflame and carrying a highly explosive cargo. Doctor Sam Blake  offers the only way out, by amputating Tony's trapped legs, but he would rather die. Felix goes aboard and stays with him. An explosion frees Tony from the wreckage, and Felix carries him to safety.Spoiled playboy Bob Merrick's  reckless behavior causes him to lose control of his speed boat. Rescuers send for the nearest resuscitator, located in Dr. Phillips's house across the lake. While the resuscitator is being used elsewhere, Dr. Phillips suffers a heart attack and dies. Merrick ends up a patient at Dr. Phillips's clinic, where most of the doctors and nurses resent the fact that Merrick inadvertently caused Dr. Phillips's death. Helen Phillips , Dr. Phillips's young widow, receives a flood of calls, letters and visitors all offering to pay back loans that Dr. Phillips refused to accept during his life. Many claimed he refused by saying "it was already used up." Edward Randolph , a famous artist and Dr. Phillips's close friend, explains to Helen what that phrase means. This helps her to understand why her husband left little money, even though he had a very successful practice. Merrick discovers why everyone dislikes him. He runs from the clinic but collapses in front of Helen's car and ends up back at the hospital, where she learns his true identity. After his discharge, Merrick leaves a party, drunk. After running off the road, Merrick ends up at the home of Edward Randolph, who recognizes him. Randolph explains the secret belief that powered his own art and Dr. Phillips's success. Merrick decides to try out this new philosophy. His first attempt causes Helen to step into the path of a car while trying to run away from Merrick's advances. She is blinded by this accident. Merrick soberly commits to becoming a doctor, trying to fulfill Dr. Phillips's legacy. He also has fallen in love with Helen and secretly helps her adjust to her blindness under the guise of being simply a poor medical student, Robby. Merrick secretly arranges for Helen to travel to Europe and consult the best eye surgeons in the world. After extensive tests, these surgeons tell Helen there is no hope for recovery. Right after this, Robby shows up at her hotel to provide emotional support, but eventually confesses to being Merrick. Helen has already guessed this. Merrick asks Helen to marry him. Later that night, Helen realizes she will be a burden to him, and so runs away and disappears. Many years pass. Merrick is now a dedicated and successful brain surgeon who secretly continues his philanthropic acts, and searches for Helen. One evening, Randolph arrives with news that Helen is very sick, possibly dying, in a small Southwest hospital. They leave immediately for this clinic. Merrick arrives to find that Helen needs a complex brain surgery to save her life. As the only capable surgeon at the clinic, Merrick performs this operation. After a long night waiting for the results, Helen awakens and discovers she can now see.Allan Quatermain , an experienced hunter and guide, is reluctantly talked into helping Elizabeth Curtis  and her brother John Goode ([[Richard Carlson  search for her husband, who had disappeared in the unexplored interior of Africa on a quest to find the legendary mines. They have a copy of the map he used. A tall, mysterious native, Umbopa , joins the safari. During the grueling journey, Elizabeth and Allan begin falling in love. The party encounters Van Brun , a lone white man living with a tribe. They learn that he met Curtis. However, when Allan recognizes him as a fugitive who cannot afford to let them go, they take him hostage to leave the village safely. Van Brun tries to shoot Allan, killing his faithful right hand man Khiva . Allan dispatches Van Brun and the party flees from the angry villagers. When they finally reach the region where the mines are supposed to be, they are met by people who resemble Umbopa. They discover that their companion is royalty; he has returned to attempt to dethrone the evil King Twala . Umbopa leaves with his supporters, while Allan, Elizabeth and John travel to a tense meeting with Twala. With his last rifle bullet, John kills a would-be attacker, temporarily quelling the natives. The king's advisor, Gagool , communicates that they have seen Curtis and leads them to a cave that contains a trove of jewels and in which they find the skeletal remains of Elizabeth's husband. While they are distracted by this discovery, Gagool takes the opportunity to leave and triggers a booby trap that seals them inside the cave. Leaving the jewels behind, they find a way out through an underground stream and return to the settlement, just as Umbopa and his followers arrive. Umbopa's people have an unusual method of deciding the kingship. The two claimants duel to the death. Despite cheating by one of Twala's men, Umbopa wins. Afterwards, he provides an escort for his friends' return trip.Three convicts - Joseph, Albert and Jules - escape from prison on Devil's Island just before Christmas and arrive at a nearby French colonial town. They go to the store of the Ducotels - Felix and Amelie, and their daughter Isabelle - the only store that gives supplies on credit. While there, they notice that his roof is leaking, and offer to fix it. They do not actually intend to fix it, but decide to remain there, until nightfall, when they will steal clothes and supplies, and escape on the ship waiting in the harbour. As they stay in the store, they find that the family is currently in financial distress and offer their services to hide their all-too-sinister ruse. Joseph even gets to work conning people and falsifying records to make the store prosperous. However, the three felons begin to have a change of heart after they fix a delicious Christmas dinner for the family: mostly made of stolen items. Andre Trochard, who owns the store but lives in Paris, arrives on the island with his nephew Paul, with whom Isabelle is infatuated. The two plan on taking control of the store due to a lack of profit from the use of credit. Also, Paul is betrothed to another woman, which dismays Isabelle. Before any action against the Ducotels is taken, both of the men are bitten by Albert's pet viper, Adolphe, and they die nearly instantly. Isabelle finds another love, and the family is happy as the convicts successfully make their final escape. While waiting on the docks for their boat to arrive, the three escaped men finally decide to turn themselves back in at the prison, judging that the outside world was likely to be worse than that of the prison. As they walk away in the final shot, angelic halos appear over each of their heads...and finally another pops up over the cage of Adolphe.In November 1944, Chief Boatswain's Mate Sam McHale  is aghast to learn that he is being transferred from the USS Enterprise, his beloved aircraft carrier, to Argos 6, a Navy-operated weather station in Inner Mongolia's Gobi Desert. Capt. Gates  explains to McHale that accurate weather forecasts are crucial to the Allies' success in the Pacific theater, and that his practical experience is required by meteorologist Commander Hobart Wyatt  and his crew of technicians: Jenkins ([[Don Taylor , Walter Landers , Wilbur "Coney" Cohen , Elwood Halsey , Frank Swenson  and Paul Sabatello . Despite his longing for the ocean, McHale adjusts to life in the desert during the following six months, although Wyatt is bemused by McHale's dependence on the military's strict chain of command. In July 1945, three weeks before they are to be relieved, the crew learns that Japanese cavalry is scouring the desert for the weather stations, and McHale starts work constructing defenses for the outpost. The group is also baffled by the arrival of a tribe of nomadic Mongols, who camp at the station's oasis. After determining that the Navy men are not interested in the oasis' grass, the Mongols' leader, Kengtu , expresses no further interest in them until Elwood attempts to take photographs of the tribe. The Mongols react with hostility, but McHale gains Kengtu's respect when he shows him how the camera works. Observing the Mongols' horsemanship, former cowboy Jenkins muses that they would make an excellent cavalry. The next day, Kengtu orders his people to return the many things they have stolen from the station, although McHale allows them to keep his own cap and Wyatt's dress uniform. Later that day, the Navy men learn that due to increasing pressure from the enemy, they will not be relieved. Hoping to persuade the Mongols to help them defend the station, McHale requisitions sixty saddles, and although the order is met with bewilderment, the saddles soon arrive and the delighted Mongols begin training with Commander Wyatt, who dubs them the "1st Mongolian Cavalry, U.S. Navy." Before long, however, the camp is bombed by Japanese planes. Wyatt and several Mongols are killed. The radio is also destroyed, and McHale is disappointed when the Mongols disappear, leaving them alone and defenseless. Rather than walking 300 miles to the nearest weather station, which might also have been attacked, McHale decides that the team travel 800 miles to the sea. The men are skeptical, but McHale orders the evacuation in his authority as commander of the team. Hoping to reach north China, and from there sail to Okinawa, captured by US forces, McHale drives the team onward, and they stop at an oasis at which some Chinese traders are camped. Also at the oasis are Kengtu and his people, and McHale confronts the chief for failing to help the navy as promised. Kengtu replies that he had to protect his people from the "birds in the sky," and agrees to put the question of helping the Americans to his people. The next day Kengtu returns the saddles. Chinese trader Yin Tang  then barters for the saddle, offering McHale four camels, and suggests that the Americans travel with the Chinese. That night, however, the treacherous Yin Tang attempts to kill them, to steal back the camels, but is stopped by the arrival of Kengtu and his men. Kengtu tells McHale that his people want the saddles back and are willing to escort the Americans to China, provided that they dress in native garb to deceive the Japanese. McHale agrees, although the men worry that they will be considered spies if they are captured because they will be out of uniform. Kengtu's plan appears to be working, however, until they reach the Chinese village of Sangchien, which is a garrison for the Japanese. Power-hungry Mongol Tomec , fed up with the troublesome Americans, appears to persuade Kengtu to turn them in, and later, McHale is angry when Kengtu leads them into an ambush by Japanese soldiers. The Navy men are taken to a prisoner-of-war camp on the coast. Questioned by a Japanese officer , McHale refuses to divulge any information about the remaining weather stations. Angered, the officer holds the men as spies rather than POWs, which means they will be shot. Their depression is lifted, however, when one of Kengtu's men, Wali-Akhun ([[Leonard Strong , allows himself to be arrested while wearing Wyatt's stolen uniform. Wali reveals that Kengtu has arranged for their escape, and that night, they break out of the camp and to the docks, where Kengtu is waiting with a Chinese junk. Kengtu explains to McHale that he did not betray them, but rather tricked the Japanese soldiers into transporting them to the ocean. Coney is killed during the escape, however, and the novice sailors soberly set sail for Okinawa. Eleven days later, the junk is spotted by American planes, which are about to bomb it until they see a large sign, with the inscription "U.S.S. Cohen" painted on it. The men are rescued, and soon after, Kengtu is returned to his people, along with sixty saddle blankets. Kengtu and McHale say farewell, and when McHale tries to explain that he is not the head chief of the Navy, as Kengtu had mistakenly thought, Kengtu replies that it is the Navy's mistake, not his.Captain Jim Knight, and his crew Roxy, Tula and a chimp named Salty sail the South Seas in search of adventure. They discover a criminal gang has taken over a small island forcing the native pearl divers to dive beyond safe limits. After capturing the three man gang, Knight takes them to Tahiti for trial where the men escape and force Knight to sail them to New Zealand. Knight subdues them again but this time a minor French magistrate is sent to the island to try them there. The magistrate joins the criminals when a native boy locates the wreck of a lost ship containing a Burmese King's treasure.Entertainer Bill Miller believes that he has the ability to become a solo performer. He and his partner Ben Bailey split up and go their separate ways. Miller fails miserably, and his manager, Leo Lyman thinks it would be a good idea to perform with a "stooge." Enter Ted Rogers, who plays an accident-prone foil for Miller. Soon afterwards, Miller's act is a hit. Along the way Rogers is unaware that he is the real reason the act is a success, and becomes very loyal to Miller. Even though he receives no billing, he defends his "partner" when someone suggests he is being taken advantage of by Miller. However, even Miller's wife Mary is ashamed of his treatment of Rogers...going so far as to threaten him with divorce. Miller is more determined than ever to prove he can make it as a single and fires Rogers, and promptly regrets his decision as his first act as a true solo artist flops. He addresses the audience, and admits that the "stooge" was the true heart and soul of the act. Rogers, who is sitting in the audience, comes to his rescue by joining him onstage and the two finally become true partners!Along Highway $101.00, approximately 531 miles from "Dollar$, Texas" and near "Deepinahearta", Texas, Bugs' rabbit hole in "Deepinahola", Texas upsets an oil tycoon, who sounds and acts like Yosemite Sam, because it isn't producing any oil. The tycoon pulls up to the hole in a green stretch limousine that is so long that it requires a long-distance telephone operator in the middle of the car to connect the tycoon to his chauffeur, Maverick, so he can tell Maverick  to stop the car. The tycoon says: "Stop the car Maverick! There's a hole on my property that aint a gushing oil!" On the back door of the limousine, a crest is shown which carries the legend, "Orvil Rich—Texan". Once Maverick stops the car, pulls a motor scooter out from behind the driver's seat  and rides the scooter back to the tycoon's back door. The tycoon surveys the situation and builds a derrick over top of the hole. Bugs comes up and asks "What's up doc?" The tycoon explains and tells Bugs to "git". Bugs tells the tycoon that the hole is, in fact, his home and tells the tycoon to drill someplace else. The tycoon tries to evict Bugs, which gets Bugs' dander up. He sends down a box of dynamite and Bugs gives the tycoon a birthday cake with the dynamite sticks for candles. "Now who could'a knowed it was my birthday, especially when it 'tain't?" asks the tycoon. Bugs then asks the tycoon to make a wish. The tycoon says: "Ah wish...Ah wish...nah: I've got too much of that filthy green stuff already!" The tycoon tries to blow out the candles but the dynamite blows up in his face. The tycoon then tries to trick Bugs by saying: "I've got a proposition I want to talk to you about." Bugs fits a pipe through his ladder that has a funnel on one end and an elbow on the other, so the it will direct the bullets into the tycoon's butt. The tycoon, very angry, orders Maverick to get Bugs out. Bugs steals Maverick's clothes and comes out dressed as Maverick. The tycoon decides to get Bugs himself, but can't find him. Bugs lifts the hat to show it's him. The tycoon calls for Maverick, who's still in Bugs' hole. The tycoon, ignorant of the situation, calls up the hole for Maverick to lower some dynamite. Bugs sends down as much as possible, at the demands of the tycoon who says: "I'll blow the critter to the outskirts of Dallas!" The hole is so loaded with dynamite when the tycoon, who is in the hole, can't see his hand before his face. Bugs calls down and tells the tycoon to look in his left hand dresser drawer for his "cigareet" lighter, which the tycoon uses while still in the hole. After the explosion, instead of oil, a gusher of carrots comes out of the hole and Bugs exclaims: "Hey! Looks like I brought in a carrot gusher!". After chomping on one of them, he senses some of the audience's slight disbelief at what they're seeing, adding: "Yeah, I know, I know...but anything can happen in 'Te-ay-xus'!" which closes the cartoon.Petty thief Nick Robey  botches a robbery, leaving his partner Al  severely wounded as Nick escapes with over $10,000. Meeting bakery worker Peg Dobbs  in friendly conversation, when Peg takes Nick to her family's apartment, he decides to take the family hostage until he can escape. As a manhunt for Nick begins outside, the robber becomes increasingly paranoid. Meanwhile, Peg schemes to sacrifice herself for the safety of her family.In 1941, Private Robert E. Lee Prewitt , a bugler, is transferred from the Bugle Corps at Fort Shafter  to a rifle outfit, Company "G," at Schofield Barracks on the island of Oahu. When Captain Dana "Dynamite" Holmes  learns of his reputation as a talented boxer, he recommends that Prewitt join the regimental boxing club that he heads, and promises that Prewitt will be promoted to corporal or even sergeant, if he helps win the boxing trophy on December 15, but Prewitt refuses, though he keeps silent about his reasons. Holmes retaliates by making army life as miserable as possible for Prewitt, hoping he will give in. Unable to break Prewitt's spirit, Holmes orders First Sergeant Milton Warden  to prepare court martial papers. Warden, however, knowing of Holmes' treatment and realizing Prewitt is a career soldier, suggests that he try to entice Prewitt to change his mind by doubling up on company punishment. The other non-commissioned officers assist in the conspiracy. Prewitt is supported only by his friend, Private Angelo Maggio .  Meanwhile, Warden begins an affair with Holmes' neglected wife Karen . Sergeant Maylon Stark  has told Warden that Karen had many affairs at Fort Bliss, including with him. As their relationship develops, Warden asks Karen about her numerous affairs to test her sincerity with him. Karen relates that Holmes has been unfaithful to her most of their marriage. She miscarried one night when Holmes came back from one affair drunk, and unable to assist her to the hospital, resulting in her not being able to bear any more children. She then affirms her genuine love for Warden. Prewitt and Maggio spend their liberty time at the New Congress Club, a gentlemen's club where Prewitt meets and falls for Lorene . Prewitt confides to Lorene the reason he refuses to box for the company is that he blinded Dixie Wells, a close friend while sparring. Maggio encounters Sergeant Judson  at the club. When Maggio complains that Judson's piano playing is interfering with his dancing, the two nearly come to blows. Maggio is told that Judson is the Sergeant of the Guard at the stockade. Later, at a tavern called "Choy's," located near the base, Judson sees Maggio holding a photograph of his family. Judson makes a rude comment to Prewitt about Maggio's sister causing Maggio to smash a bar stool over Judson's head. Judson pulls a switchblade on Maggio, but Warden, sitting in a corner, intervenes to save Maggio by telling Judson that killing Maggio would "create two weeks of paperwork" for him. When Judson advances on Warden with the knife, Warden breaks a beer bottle in two and uses the jagged edge as a weapon. Judson retreats, throws down his knife and goes to the bar for a drink. Warden states, "As soldiers, he would prefer two Camp Fire Girls over Judson and Maggio." However, Judson warns Maggio , that sooner or later Maggio would end up in the stockade and he would be there waiting for him. Karen tells Warden that if he became an officer, she could divorce Holmes and they could return to the States and marry. Warden is not keen on the idea because of his dislike of officers, but agrees to consider the matter. Prewitt manages a weekend pass, courtesy of Warden, and goes to meet Lorene who is too busy at the club to talk. However, she meets him later at a bar for a drink. He tells Lorene he loves the Army, and shows Lorene his prized possession, a bugle mouthpiece. Prew tells her the honor of his lifetime, being selected to play Taps at Arlington National Cemetery on Armistice Day with the President in attendance. Maggio then walks in drunk and in uniform, explaining that he was assigned to guard duty that night, but deserted his post. Lorene encourages Prewitt to take Maggio back to the base. While Prewitt is calling for a cab, Military Police arrive and arrest Maggio, and he is sentenced to six months in the stockade. Matters come to a head for Prewitt when Sergeant Galovitch picks a fight with Prewitt while on yard detail, and the two come to blows. At first, Galovitch repeatedly pummels Prewitt, who initially refuses to fight back, and then resorts to using only body blows. But as Galovitch and others watching continue taunting him, Prewitt's fighting side re-emerges, and Prewitt comes close to knocking Galovitch out before Holmes  finally steps in and stops the fight. When Galovitch falsely accuses Prewitt of insubordination, Holmes is about to punish Prewitt again until the man in charge of the detail says that it was Galovitch, not Prewitt, who was spoiling for the fight. But instead of punishing Galovitch, Holmes abruptly lets him off the hook and disperses the crowd. The entire incident is witnessed by the base commander, who orders an investigation by the Inspector General. When Holmes' true intentions are revealed to the commander, he orders a court-martial. When Holmes begs for an alternative, the commander's aide suggests that Holmes resign his commission "for the good of the service" and leave the Army, which the general accepts with dispatch. Holmes' replacement, Captain Ross, verbally reprimands the others involved, and then orders Sergeant Galovitch's demotion to private and put in charge of the latrine. Maggio manages to escape from the stockade and find Prewitt and dies in his arms after telling of the abuse he suffered from Judson in the stockade. The following night Prewitt plays taps as tears stream down his cheeks. Seeking revenge, Prewitt tracks down Judson in town and invites him into a back alley to talk, then attacks him using the very same switchblade Judson had pulled on Maggio earlier. Prewitt kills Judson, but not before sustaining a serious stomach wound. Prewitt runs from the alley and goes into hiding at Lorene's apartment. Despite Prewitt's AWOL status, his platoon sergeant carries him "present" for three days at Warden's direction. Lorene, whose real name is Alma, tends to Prewitt's wounds. When the Japanese attack Pearl Harbor, Prewitt, still weak from his unhealed wound, finds out about the attack, and attempts to return to camp under cover of darkness, but is shot dead by a sentry. Warden identifies the body, laments Prewitt's stubbornness and states the irony that because of the attack, the boxing tournament is cancelled. However, he tells the other soldiers that Prewitt was in the end, a good soldier, and that he "loved the army more that any man I know." Holmes' resignation results in Karen having to return to the States with him. When she finds out that Warden failed to apply for officer status, she realizes they will never be together. At the end, Lorene and Karen meet on a ship leaving for the mainland. Karen then tosses two leis into the water. She tells Alma, "There's a legend: if they float to shore, you'll return to Hawaii. If they float out to sea, you'll never return." Alma says she will never return, telling Karen that her fiancé was an Army Air Corps pilot killed in a B-17 during the attack, "he was awarded the Silver Star, they sent it to his mother. She wrote me. She wanted me to have it. They are very fine people, Southern people. He was named after a general. Robert E. Lee... Prewitt." Karen recognizes Prewitt's name from conversations with Warden. Lorene holds Prewitt's treasured bugle mouth piece.During World War II, a singing trio goes out on tour entertaining wounded soldiers. They get involved with a severely wounded soldier who is in love with a nurse.After Danny loses his job working for the New York Morning Blade. Sach and Duke decide to pay the editor a visit in order to get Danny his job back. However, the two instead agree to get a photograph of gangster Frankie Arbo for the newspaper. The Bowery Boys try several disguises in order to catch Arbo in the act before they finally decide to pose as gangsters themselves.A few hours before D-Day, Special Force Six embarks to destroy an especially well-defended German gun emplacement on the Normandy coast. As the ship steams towards it, the officers and men recall what circumstances brought them there, especially Wynter and Parker. Captain Brad Parker, an American paratrooper invalided out because of a broken leg suffered during a parachute jump is posted to the headquarters of the European Theatre of Operations in London. At the Red Cross club, he meets and, despite being married, falls in love with Valerie Russell a Women's Royal Army Corps subaltern. Valerie is the daughter of a crusty Brigadier who's been on sick leave since being wounded at Dunkirk. Valerie is also already in love with Captain John Wynter of the British Commandos, a friend of her father. Both officers are posted overseas, but later return. Parker has volunteered to join what becomes Special Force Six, to be led by his former commander, Lt. Colonel  Timmer. With only a few hours before the operation is due to embark, Timmer goes to pieces  and is arrested whilst drunk and breaking security. Wynter, now a Colonel, who has recovered from being badly wounded, is brought in to command the operation. The operation is a success, despite several killed and wounded. Wynter is killed when he steps on a mine. Parker is badly wounded and evacuated. In hospital, and due to be repatriated, he sees Valerie for the last time. She does not tell him that Wynter has been killed.Professor Dingledong the taxidermist school instructor is about to teach his students "how to stuff a woodpecker in one easy lesson." For this purpose, he goes to a jail-like room with cells, and from one of these cells, he picks Woody. Escaping the nutty taxidermist's clutches, Woody is pursued by an unforgettable private eye, Strongnose the bloodhound. The remaining cartoon deals with the bloodhound's attempts to capture Woody, and with Woody's frustration of same. The chase leads through a hollow log, a railroad tunnel, a lumber yard, an ice machine and a door factory, and finally, back to the taxidermy school, where the instructor threatens to stuff the bloodhound for his failure. Woody intervenes, and he and Strongnose team up and lock up the professor, with plans to stuff him.Union officers Major Drango and Captain Banning ride into a Georgia town ravaged by the Civil War and still bitter about the lives and property lost. Drango is the new military governor, but townspeople including Judge Allen and his son Clay make it clear that these Yankees are not welcome. A local man seen as disloyal to the Confederacy is lynched. The man's daughter, Kate Calder, blames Drango for letting it happen. Drango attempts to bring the men responsible to justice, but wealthy Shelby Ransom harbors the fugitives, including Clay, her lover. Union colonel Bracken finds fault with Drango for not being tough enough, so he confiscates the town's food supply and rations it. Clay's men stage a raid. A doctor and newspaper editor offer Drango their support in restoring order. The newspaper office is set ablaze and the editor's young son is accidentally killed. Kate now sides with Drango, and an angered Shelby tries to order Clay from her home, but he slaps her and makes her lure Capt. Banning to an ambush. Now even the judge is appalled by Clay's unlawful acts. He warns his son this must stop. Clay refuses to listen and shoots Drango, wounding him. He is about to kill Drango when a bullet from his father ends Clay's life, restoring law and order to the town.The film opens with Bernard Herrmann's music, played over the both the RKO logo and then the title credits as the camera cruises down a dark city street. The stark nighttime scenery immediately establishes a noir atmosphere. The police officers are getting ready for a day's work and head to the squad room. It is announced that it has been two weeks since the killing of a cop and the culprit is still on the loose. Detective Jim Wilson and his partner, acting on a tip, visit Myrna Bowers. Her very abusive boyfriend, Bernie Tucker, is supposed to be a partner of the suspected murderers. Jim convinces Myrna to reveal Bernie's hideout, and after he tracks Bernie down, he beats him into betraying his partners. Although Jim's actions lead to the arrest of the killers, his superior, Capt. Brawley, cautions him to take it easy. Later, while on patrol, the detectives hear a woman scream and discover Myrna being beaten by two thugs. Jim grabs one of the men and starts to rough him up. The next day, Brawley yells at Jim that he is becoming a liability to the department and assigns him to assist in the investigation of a young woman's murder in the rural north. Jim Wilson has lost control, and says after he's restrained by his partner from beating up a suspect: :What kind of job is this, anyway? Garbage, that's all we handle, garbage! In the second act, Wilson is sent up north to cool out. "Siberia," he wryly notes. Though he is given a job similar to what he has left behind in the city—a murder investigation—Wilson's exile to the wintry countryside marks the beginning of his journey of redemption. Following a pursuit of the killer, Wilson is brought together with a blind woman, Mary Malden , the sister of the fugitive. In the brief final act, Wilson's redemption is a foregone conclusion, but it is his journey toward it that matters most: Wilson has made his way on dangerous ground.The marshal of Medicine Bend, Marshal Calem Ware,  tries to keep peace in a lawless town whilst trying to prevent himself from being killed. The arrival in town of a show troupe reunites the marshal with someone from his past, leading to a showdown with his would-be killers and his old flame, Tally Dickinson, .Told in flashback by police detective Dick Chasen , the movie concerns a 72-hour period of horror for the main characters. Charles "Butcher" Benton  is a double-crossed convicted robber and murderer who was executed in the gas chamber. His body is unlawfully sold to a scientist (Robert Shayne of [[Adventures of Superman , who plans to move his testing to human subjects. The corpse is subjected to chemical injection and massive jolts of high-frequency electricity in order to study the effect on human tissues. But Benton's heart is restimulated and he completely revives , immensely strong and with skin virtually impervious—even to bazooka shells. After killing the doctor and his assistant ([[Joe Flynn , Benton sets out to avenge himself on his attorney and the lawyer's henchmen who, in collusion with the attorney, had betrayed Benton in order to steal his loot. Benton had left the location of his stash to his stripper-girlfriend , who had since gone straight and begun dating the detective who brought Benton to justice, after she had rejected the lawyer's own advances. The story then follows Benton's revenge on his enemies; the police who first learn of a wave of mysterious killing, then of Benton's reanimation; and the developing relationship between the detective and the stripper. The lawyer, fearing for his life after the two henchman are murdered, confesses the plot to the police, and reveals that Benton had always used the sewer system to evade detection; and to find a hiding place for the money, as it turns out. Tracked down by the police, Benton is weakened but not killed when he takes a direct hit in the solar plexus from a bazooka, and is disfigured by a flame thrower. He runs to a power station, where he maneuvers metal equipment and himself into position to trigger a high-voltage jolt of electricity, which kills him. At the fade-out, Chasen proposes to his girlfriend.The film follows a day in the life of Detective Chief Inspector George Gideon of the Metropolitan Police. His day starts when he received information that one of his officers has been on the take. Despite his hectic schedule, his wife reminds him his daughter has a violin recital that evening; she also tells him her aunt and uncle are coming for tea before the concert. This becomes a recurring theme throughout the film, as Gideon is continually hampered in his efforts to finish work and return home. On the way to Scotland Yard he drops his daughter off at the Royal College of Music but is stopped by a young constable for running a red light. Once at his office, he calls in the detective who a snout has told him is taking bribes and suspends him. Gideon then gets word that an escaped mental patient from Manchester is on his way to London. Meanwhile an audacious gang are robbing banks. The mental patient is soon arrested but not before he killed his former landlady's daughter. Gideon personally wants to congratulate the policeman who made the arrest only to discover it's the same overzealous young officer who gave him a summons for his early morning traffic offence. Various jobs then pre-occupy the chief inspector while his detectives continue to investigate the bribery case. News then arrives the suspended policeman has been run down by a car; a vehicle that fits the description of one used in the earlier bank jobs. After visiting the dead officer's wife, evidence soon emerges that links the dead detective to a woman who went to clubs he frequented. Gideon goes to the address and discovers that the woman's husband was responsible for the robberies because he wanted the financial means to be a painter. The husband then tricks his wife in to holding a gun on Gideon while he makes his escape. The detective uses his calm manner to diffuse the situation. But before he can return home, the phone rings again. A safety deposit firm has been robbed by a gang of rich socialites who have been cornered inside. When the police finally draw them out, Gideon catches one of the gang himself. But he loses his temper when he finds out that the elderly night watchman was killed in cold blood by the man he arrested. Telling him "you'll hang for this, you rich nobody!" Finally Gideon gets home. His wife tells him that their daughter has met a nice young man at her recital. It turns out it's the young constable again. He had been holding the chief inspector's concert ticket all day following his morning meeting. This led him to meet Gideon's daughter who is quite taken by the young man. But finally just as they are all sitting down to supper, the phone ring one last time. A man believed to be Peter the Painter has been arrested at London Airport. The film concludes with a finally irony, the young constable, who is driving Gideon to the airport, is stopped by another policeman as he races through the capital's foggy streets for running a red light!A United States Air Force re-supply crew is dispatched by General Fogerty from Anchorage, Alaska at the request of Dr. Carrington, the chief scientist working at a North Pole base. They have evidence that an unknown flying craft crashed nearby. Reporter Ned Scott tags along on the trip. Dr. Carrington briefs the airmen, and Dr. Redding shows photos of a heavy object moving erratically before crashing; not the movements of a meteor. Following Geiger counter readings, the crew and scientists fly to the crash site aboard the supply team's C-47. The mysterious craft lays buried beneath refrozen ice, with just the tip of a rounded airfoil protruding from the surface. As they outline the craft's shape, they realize they are standing in a circle; they have discovered a crashed flying saucer. They try unearthing it with thermite heat bombs, but ignite the ship's metal alloy, causing an explosion that destroys the saucer. Sergeant Bob's Geiger counter points to a frozen body buried nearby. They excavate a block of ice around the tall body and fly it to the research outpost as a storm moves into their region, cutting off their communications with Anchorage. Some of the scientists want to thaw out the body, but Captain Hendry issues orders for everyone to wait until he receives instructions from the Air Force. Corporal Barnes covers the ice block with a blanket, not realizing it is a warm electric blanket; as the ice melts the creature revives, and finally escapes into the sub-zero cold of the raging storm. The creature is attacked by sled dogs and the scientists recover a severed arm. As the arm warms up, it ingests some of the dead dogs' blood covering it, and the hand begins moving. Seed pods are discovered in its palm, demonstrating that the creature is a form of plant life. Carrington is convinced that the creature can be reasoned with and has much to teach them, but Dr. Chapman and the others disagree; the Air Force personnel believe the alien may be dangerous. Carrington deduces their visitor requires blood to survive and reproduce. He later discovers the body of a dead sled dog in the base's greenhouse; the alien has forced the lock on the greenhouse's door and bent it back in shape. Carrington has Dr. Voorhees, Dr. Olsen and Dr. Auerbach, stand guard overnight, waiting for it to return. Carrington secretly uses blood plasma from the infirmary to incubate seedlings grown from the alien pods. In the greenhouse, the strung-up bodies of Olsen and Auerbach are discovered, drained of blood. Dr. Stern is almost killed by the creature but escapes. Nikki Nicholson, Carrington's secretary, reluctantly updates Hendry when he asks about missing plasma and confronts Carrington in his lab, where he discovers the seeds have grown at an alarming rate. Dr. Wilson advises Carrington that he has not slept, but Carrington remains unconcerned. Hendry then rushes to the greenhouse after hearing what happened there: the alien visitor is behind the door as Hendry opens it, and he immediately slams the door on the creature's regrown arm as it tries to grab him; as the alien pulls its arm back through, its barbed knuckles rip the door's trim to splinters. The alien escapes through the greenhouse's exterior door and breaks into another building in the compound. Following Nicholson's suggestion, Hendry and his men set a trap in a nearby room: they set the creature ablaze using a flare gun and buckets of kerosene, forcing it to jump through a window into the storm. Nicholson notices that the temperature inside the station is falling; a heating fuel line has been sabotaged by the alien. The cold forces everyone to make a final stand near the generator room. They rig an electrical "fly trap", hoping to electrocute the creature. As it advances, Carrington tries to save it by shutting off the power and reasoning with it; the alien throws him aside and continues advancing. An airman throws a pick axe at the creature, forcing it to step on their electrical grid; a switch is thrown and the alien is reduced to ash. Hendry orders all traces of the alien visitor destroyed. When the weather clears, Scotty files his "story of a lifetime" by radio to a roomful of reporters in Anchorage. During his report, Scotty broadcasts a warning to the reporters: "Tell the world. Tell this to everyone, wherever they are. Watch the skies everywhere. Keep looking. Keep watching the skies."An airplane crashes in the jungle, stranding passengers Gamage Dean , Diana Penrod , "Doodles" Fletcher , Carl Kraski , and Dick Penrod . Before the plane slides into a gorge the group is rescued by Tarzan , who undertakes to lead them back to civilization. Diana is kidnapped by warriors from Opar under Chief Ogonooro . The Oparians desire the strangers as sacrifices for their lion god. She is recovered by Tarzan and hunter Tusker Hawkins , whose advances Diana rebuffs. Secretly, however, Hawkins is in league with the Oparians, and plans to sell the castaways to the natives for a fortune in ivory. Tarzan, rightly suspecting Hawkins' untrustworthiness, exposes his treachery. Now openly in league with the natives, the hunter helps them take the white party captive in Tarzan's absence. The ape man returns to save them before the sacrifice can take place, aided by his chimpanzee ally Cheeta, who sets fire to the native village. He then leads them to the safety of a nearby settlement. Hawkins meets his fate at the hands of the Oparians, to whom Tarzan has signaled his double-dealing by a creative use of jungle drums.The film was based on the novels The Case of the Blinded Pilot by Cmdr. Harry A. Burns and James A. Michener's The Forgotten Heroes of Korea and details life aboard the aircraft carrier USS Oriskany. The film's high point is the factually depicted scene where Thayer  talks in a blinded Navy F9F Panther pilot  for a landing.The story is set in 1917, before and during American involvement in World War I, in the central California coastal towns of Monterey and Salinas. Cal  and Aron  are the sons of a modestly successful farmer and wartime draft board chairman named Adam Trask . Cal is moody and embittered by his belief that his father favors Aron. Although both Cal and Aron had long been led to believe that their mother had died "and gone to heaven", the opening scene reveals that Cal has apparently learned that his mother is still alive, owning and running a successful brothel in nearby Monterey. After the father's idealistic plans for a long-haul vegetable shipping business venture end in a loss of thousands of dollars, Cal decides to enter the bean-growing business, as a way of recouping the money his father lost in the vegetable shipping venture. He is advised that if the United States enters the war, the price of beans will skyrocket. Cal hopes this will finally earn him the love and respect of his father. He goes to his mother Kate  to ask to borrow the capital he needs. She reluctantly lends him $5,000. Meanwhile, Aron's girlfriend Abra  gradually finds herself attracted to Cal, who seems to reciprocate her feelings. Cal's business goes well, and he decides to give the money to Adam at a surprise birthday party for his father, which he and Abra plan together. As the party gets underway, Aron suddenly announces that he and Abra are engaged. While Adam is openly pleased with the news, both Abra and Cal are uneasy, having recently discovered a mutual attraction for one another is emerging, despite their suppressed feelings. Cal makes a surprise birthday present of the money to his father; however, Adam refuses to accept any money earned by what he regards as war profiteering. Cal does not understand, and sees his father's refusal to accept the gift as just another emotional rejection. When the distraught Cal leaves the room, Abra goes after him, to console him as best she can. Aron follows and orders Cal to stay away from her. In anger, Cal takes his brother to see their mother, then returns home alone. When his father demands to know where his brother is, Cal tells him. The shock drives Aron to get drunk and board a troop train to enlist in the army. When Sam , the sheriff, brings the news, Adam rushes to the train station in an attempt to dissuade him, but can only watch helplessly as his son steams away from him with his head out the rail car window, maniacally laughing at him. Adam suffers a stroke because of the incredible strain, leaving him paralyzed and unable to communicate. Cal and Abra enter the bedroom. Cal tries to talk to him, but gets no response and leaves the bedroom leaving Abra alone with Adam. Abra pleads with Adam to show Cal some affection before it is too late. She persuades Cal to go back into the room. When Cal makes his last bid for acceptance before leaving town, his father manages to speak. He tells his son to get rid of the annoying nurse and not to get anyone else, but to stay and take care of him himself. The film ends with Cal and Abra sitting by Adam's bedside.Bud Jones  and Lou Hotchkiss  are wrestling promoters. Their star, Abdullah , no longer wishes to follow the script for their crooked matches, especially since he is supposed to lose his next match. Abdullah leaves America to return to his homeland, Algeria. The promoters' financiers, a syndicate that has lent them $5,000 to bring Abdullah to the States, are now requiring them to return the money or face the consequences. The two men follow Abdullah to Algeria in hopes of bringing him back. Meanwhile, Abdullah's cousin, Sheik Hamud El Khalid  and a crooked Foreign Legionnaire, Sergeant Axmann , have been raiding a railroad construction site in order to extort "protection" money from the railroad company. When Bud and Lou arrive, they are mistaken for company spies, and the Sheik and Axmann attempt to murder them. As each attempt fails, the assassins' hatred for Bud and Lou intensifies, especially when Lou outbids the Sheik for six slave girls, one of whom, Nicole , is actually a French spy assigned to gain entry into the Sheik's camp. The boys are then chased, only to wind up hiding at the Foreign Legion headquarters, where Axmann convinces them to join. Meanwhile, the Foreign Legion Commandant  suspects that there is a traitor among the Legionnaires, as the Sheik anticipates every one of the Legion's moves . The Commandant then grants Bud and Lou a pass into town where they meet up with Nicole. She informs them that they must search Axmann's room for proof that he is a traitor, but he catches them in the act. However, they are spared, only to end up at a Legionnaire desert camp. Just before the camp is ambushed by the Sheik's men, Bud and Lou wander off in search of a camel, and escape death. They are eventually captured, along with Nicole, who is put in Sheik Hamud's harem. The Shiek orders that one of his wrestlers execute them. The wrestler turns out to be Abdullah, who helps them escape. They head to Fort Apar, where they lure the Sheik's men, and blow it up. They are given awards by the Commandant and honourably discharged from the Legion. Lou thanks Nicole for helping them and gives his award to her before they leave, only for Bud to find out that Lou is taking the six slave girls with them back to the States.Two sombrero-wearing cats, Jose and Manuel, are singing while relaxing on the "Avenida de Gatos" when they are taunted by Speedy Gonzales. After Manuel fails to catch Speedy, Jose informs Manuel that Speedy is "the fastest mouse in all Mexico" and that they will have to use their brains, not their feet, to catch him. The pair set off for Speedy's home in Guadalajara where they again fail to capture him. During their struggles, Manuel gets hit on the head by Jose with a guitar, Jose hooks Speedy with a fishing line and gets towed to Los Angeles, Manuel gets blown up by dynamite, and both cats get blown up in a minefield they constructed. Jose and Manuel are sitting on top of a wall after failing to outsmart and catch Speedy. Manuel laments they should have gone after Speedy's cousin, Slowpoke Rodriguez, the "slowest mouse in all Mexico". Jose is convinced to go after him and runs off. Manuel desperately tries to catch up to him and warn about Slowpoke. No sooner than Jose arrives at the mouse house and catches him, Slowpoke shoots him. Manuel tells Jose exactly what he was trying to warn him about Slowpoke: "He packs a gun", leaving the charred Jose to lament, "Now he tell me."Edwin Rumill  is the former first mate of a luxury ocean liner who jumps at the opportunity to take full command of a vessel. Unfortunately, the New Zealand-harbored SS Berwind isn't exactly the luxury ocean liner he dreamed of commanding—it is a utilitarian freighter whose captain has recently died. His crew is also a disappointment, often ill-tempered with their own plans for the ship's fate: two members of the crew, Leroy Martin  and Henry Scott  have concoted a scheme to murder the ship's crew and Rumill and sell the ship for salvage to the highest bidder, expecting to earn around a million dollars. Rumill is faced with the task of rallying the ship's crew to overcome Martin and Scott, a task made even more difficult because of Mahia  - the cook's wife—who makes everyone uncomfortable with her overly flirtatious nature.In the wine-growing village of Montpaillard, the humorless gamekeeper Parju is determined to bring in the wily poacher Blaireau. One night, he is accidentally knocked out by Armand Fléchard, a young piano teacher, but is convinced the attacker was Blaireau and has him arrested. However, Blaireau knows how to take advantage of any situation, and what he makes of being arrested benefits the entire village, including Fléchard and his girlfriend, Arabella, the daughter of the local landowner.A group of copper miners, Southern veterans, are terrorized by local rebel-haters, led by deputy Lane Travis. The miners ask stage sharpshooter Johnny Carter to help them, under the impression that he is the legendary Colonel Desmond. It seems they're wrong; but Johnny's show comes to Coppertown and Johnny romances lovely gambler Lisa Roselle, whom the miners believe is at the center of their troubles.Richard the Lionheart , King of England, vanishes while returning from the Crusades. One of his knights, the Saxon Wilfred of Ivanhoe ([[Robert Taylor , searches tirelessly for him, finally finding him being held for ransom by Leopold of Austria for the enormous sum of 150,000 marks of silver. Richard’s treacherous brother, Prince John , knows about it, but enjoys ruling in his absence. Ivanhoe returns to England, to the house of his estranged father, Cedric , to be reunited with his love and Cedric’s ward, the Lady Rowena , and to beg his father’s help in raising the ransom. Cedric refuses to help a Norman king and orders his son to leave. Wamba , Cedric’s court jester, begs to go with Ivanhoe and is made his squire. Two separate parties of travellers arrive and are granted Cedric’s hospitality: a Jew, Isaac of York , and Norman knights Sir Brian de Bois-Guilbert  and Sir Hugh de Bracy ([[Robert Douglas , and their entourage. That night, two of the Normans try to rob Isaac, but are foiled by Ivanhoe. Not feeling safe, Isaac decides to return to his home in Sheffield; Ivanhoe offers to escort him there. When they reach Isaac’s home, Ivanhoe secures his help raising the ransom in return for better treatment for the Jews once Richard returns. Rebecca , Isaac’s daughter, visits Ivanhoe secretly in the night to reward him for rescuing her father; she gives him jewels to purchase arms and a horse for an important upcoming joust. She falls in love with him, despite the great social gulf between them. Nearly everyone of note is at the tournament, including Prince John. Norman knights loyal to him defeat all comers. Just when it seems that they are victorious, a mysterious new Saxon knight appears, arrayed all in black, with white trim,  his face hidden behind his visor. He does not give his name, but challenges all five Norman champions. He easily defeats the first three, Malvoisin, Ralph, and Front de Boeuf , one after the other, and also wins the fourth bout against de Bracy, but is seriously wounded in the shoulder. He is soon identified by many as Ivanhoe. When Ivanhoe salutes Rebecca after his first victory, Bois-Guilbert is immediately smitten by her beauty. In the last joust against Bois-Guilbert, the weakened Ivanhoe falls from his horse. He is carried off, to be tended to by Rebecca. Fearing Prince John’s wrath, the Saxons depart; Ivanhoe is taken to the woods under the protection of Robin Hood . The rest make for the city of York, but are captured and taken to the castle of Front de Boeuf. When Ivanhoe hears the news, he gives himself up, in exchange for his father’s freedom. However, the Normans go back on their word and keep them both. Robin Hood’s men then storm the castle, freeing most of the captives. In the fighting, de Boeuf drives Wamba to his death in a burning part of the castle and is slain in turn by Ivanhoe. Bois-Guilbert alone escapes, by using Rebecca as a shield, while de Bracy is defeated and captured by Ivanhoe after attempting to do the same with Rowena. Meanwhile, the enormous ransom is finally collected, but the Jews face a cruel choice: free either Richard or Rebecca, for Prince John has set the price of her life at 100,000 marks, the Jews’ contribution. Isaac chooses Richard. Ivanhoe entrusts the ransom delivery to Cedric, but promises Isaac that he will rescue Rebecca. John has her condemned to be burned at the stake as a witch, but Ivanhoe appears and challenges the verdict, invoking the right to “wager of battle,” which cannot be denied. Prince John chooses the conflicted Bois-Guilbert as his champion. The Norman makes a last desperate plea to Rebecca: in return for her love, he is willing to forfeit the duel, though he would be forever disgraced as a knight. She refuses, saying “We are all in God’s hands, sir knight.” In the battle to the death, Ivanhoe’s axe prevails over Bois-Guilbert’s mace and chain. As he lies dying, Bois-Guilbert reaffirms to Rebecca that he is the one who loves her, not Ivanhoe. Rebecca accepts that Ivanhoe’s heart has always belonged to Rowena, and Richard and his knights  return to reclaim his throne from his usurping brother.Brando appears at the start of the film as Ken, a young infantry lieutenant leading his platoon through an embattled European town. He advances into an open square and a shot rings out. He is hit in the lower back and in an instant a robust young man is made paraplegic for the rest of his life. In the hospital Ken is a sullen and resentful patient, and in feeling sorry for himself he finds no sympathy from his fellow paraplegics. (These include Norm, a bitter and caustic man, , and Leo,  Ken's reluctance to respond to treatment begins to diminish through the persistence of his fiancée  who refuses to give him up, despite his wish that she do so. With the support too, of a sympathetic doctor , Ken begins to tackle the programme of adjustment. He decides to go through with the wedding, determined to take the vows standing up at the altar. The wedding night however is painful for him and he returns to the hospital. Later he is involved in a drunk driving accident and is disciplined by his fellow patients. Eventually Ken comes to appreciate that he has responsibilities, especially to his wife, who is also faced with the problems of being married to a paraplegic, a course she has accepted with full knowledge and considerable courage.The members of the local university's trust make a wager that anyone can make it through college if just given the chance. Because of this, they enlist the boys to attend the university to prove the theory. While the boys do not become academic scholars, Sach invents a "vitamin" drink that makes him invincible. They all join the football team and Sach becomes the star player, leading them to the big championship game. A local gambler sees an opportunity to make some money by kidnapping Sach and preventing him from playing. However, Slip and the rest of the gang rescue Sach and return him to the game. Unfortunately he does not have any more "vitamins", so Slip plans a ruse on the playing field that distracts the other team and allows him to score the winning touchdown. In the end, Sach cannot reproduce his "vitamin" formula, but he does produce a new concoction that allows him to fly!The film tells the story of a group of high school boxing team members who spend their days drinking, sailing and chasing girls, and who more often than not spend their nights getting into brawls. In particular, it focuses upon Tatsuya, a sullen young man, who falls in love with Eiko, a proud upper-class girl.Hank Whirling needs a bank's help to keep his Whirling Circus going. He gets a loan on the condition he take along accountant Randy Sherman and publicist Helen Harrison to help the circus turn a profit. Hank's top act is the Colino trapeze troupe, featuring family patriarch Zach and newcomer Tommy Gordon. Unknown to Hank, his little sister Jeannie has held a lifelong ambition to fly on the trapeze. An unknown saboteur sets a lion loose, terrifying an audience until Hank manages to tame it. Helen accuses him of staging the incident for publicity. She and Randy are infuriated by Hank's refusal to accept their help. Randy's attempt to save money by firing workers and replacing them with a machine that raises the big-top tent is also sabotaged, leading to a death and many suspicions and accusations. With the bank about to foreclose, Hank goes to television star Steve Allen to seek needed publicity for the circus. A wire walk across Niagara Falls by Zach is also held, amidst fear of additional sabotage. By the time Jeannie finally gets a shot at flying on the trapeze, Hank realizes that Tommy is the culprit, having a history of mental illness and a grudge against the circus. Jeannie's life and the future of the circus is left hanging by a thread.Two men  on a fishing trip pick up a hitchhiker named Emmett Myers ([[William Talman , who turns out to be a psychopath who has committed multiple murders.{{Plot}} The black-and-white film opens with a close-up on Jimmy Porter performing on trumpet in a crowded, smoky jazz club . Having finished to a round of applause, he goes over to his friend Cliff, sitting at a front row table, but his friend waves him off in dumb-show, being more intent on winning the affections of a woman. . Scenes of Jimmy walking home through the depressing streets of a Midlands industrial town  serve to give the film its overall visual context. Arriving home at their attic flat, he surreptitiously goes through his sleeping wife's handbag before getting into bed with her. It is not until seven minutes into the film that the first lines of dialogue are spoken. The next morning, with a train rattling past the open window, Jimmy wakes up and walks into Cliff's room. He complains that Alison is writing secret letters to her mother &mdash; conspiring against him, as he sees it. The next scene is set on Sunday morning and is a shortened version of Act I of the play, with Alison at the ironing board and Jimmy and Cliff reading the newspapers. Much of Jimmy's tirade against Alison is cut; but his derision of her family is still very evident. Jimmy and Cliff start the 'where's nobody?' Music Hall sketch from Act III of the play, but Alison doesn't play along and the scene ends in horseplay, with Alison getting a burn as the ironing board is overturned. Cliff and Alison play a tender scene as he puts soap on her burned arm, establishing that their relationship is affectionate, but not sexual. The scene ends on Alison's line "I'm frightened". On Monday morning, we see Jimmy and Cliff setting up their sweet'Candy', for the benefit of the American reader stall in the market place. The character of a vindictive market inspector, Hurst, played by Donald Pleasence, is introduced. Alison, meanwhile, visits her doctor. She tells him her own carelessness caused the burn. The doctor asks whether her husband knows that she is pregnant. She asks if it is "too late to do anything about it", and the doctor replies "I didn't hear that question" . Back at the market, Ma Tanner turns up, in town to take care of her dead husband's grave. Almost a caricature of a cheerful working-class elderly woman, it's obvious that Jimmy has lots of affection and admiration for her. She was once his landlady, and lent him the capital to start the sweet-stall business. They go into a pub for a drink, and Alison comes in. Jimmy does not fail to notice Alison recoiling from Ma Tanner's affectionate hug; the gulf in social class between the two women is enormous and, in the context of the time, it's very plausible that Alison would react that way. Alison is trying to tell Jimmy about her pregnancy but cannot get his attention. Instead she tells Cliff . A brief scene by Ma Tanner's husband's grave continues the theme of Jimmy and Ma Tanner's affection for each other. She asks him what he wants in life and he replies "Everything. Nothing". Back at the flat, Alison is taking a phone call from her friend Helena, an actress who's in town for an audition and looking for somewhere to crash. Alison invites her to take over Cliff's room, and warns Cliff that Jimmy really hates Helena and all she stands for. The conflict to come is made very obvious. Jimmy returns, apologises for the burn, and plays one of the only two loving scenes between him and Alison. They play out a game pretending to be stuffed-toy bears and squirrels, and seem to be on the point of behaving like a normal married couple, when in walks Helena. Jimmy immediately attacks her verbally, but she shrugs it off as though it's just an act. In several scenes at the flat and back at the jazz club, the expository dialogue from Act II of the play is played out. Alison describes Jimmy as a knight in shining armour, and Helena says "You've got to fight him". Over an afternoon meal, Jimmy's most cruel and vituperative attacks on both women take place. At the market, a sub-plot is introduced that was never even referred to in the play. A new stall-owner, an Indian immigrant called Kapoor  sets up a stall selling cut-price clothing. Kapoor is victimised by everyone except Jimmy and Cliff and, in a later scene, the market inspector Hurst revokes his licence. Kapoor is literally forced out of business by the prejudice of 'respectable' English people &mdash; a not improbable plot device in a portrayal of 1950s England. Alison goes to a theatre where Helena is rehearsing a particularly nauseating play. Jimmy and Cliff crash in and disrupt the rehearsal, taking over the stage and improvising their silly music-hall act. At another Sunday tea-table scene, Alison announces that she's going to church with Helena, and Jimmy's scorn and anger reach a new peak. When Jimmy leaves to take a phone call, Helena says "I'm going to call your father and get him to take you home". Alison agrees that she will go. Coming downstairs on the way to church, the women run into Jimmy. The phone call brought the news that Ma Tanner is in hospital after a stroke, and not expected to live. Jimmy says that of course he will go to her, and begs Alison to go with him. Instead, she marches out with Helena. A brief scene follows of Jimmy with Ma Tanner on her deathbed, in the public ward of a hospital. Back at the attic, we see Alison's father, Colonel Redfern, who has come to collect her to take her back to her family home. The Colonel is quite a sympathetic character, albeit totally out of touch with the modern world . "You're hurt because everything's changed," Alison tells him, "and Jimmy's hurt because everything's stayed the same." Helena arrives to say goodbye, intending to leave very soon herself but obliged to stay another day by the run of her play. Alison leaves, giving Cliff a note for Jimmy. Cliff in turn hands it to Helena and leaves himself, saying "I hope he stuffs it up your nostrils". Almost immediately, Jimmy bursts in. His contempt at finding a "goodbye" note makes him turn on Helena again, warning her to keep out of his way until she leaves. He now learns for the first time that Alison is expecting a baby, and although he proclaims that he doesn't care it's clear that he's taken aback. However, his tirade continues. Helena slaps him, and he collapses on the bed almost in tears, and as the scene ends, Jimmy and Helena are kissing passionately and falling on the bed . Two external scenes follow before we get to the Act III material. First, a scene of Jimmy in the graveyard at Ma Tanner's burial, searching in vain for any token of sympathy from Alison. Then a scene in Helena's dressing room at the theatre, as Jimmy complains of Alison's callousness and protests the unjust ways of the world in general. Now comes the scene that repeats the opening scene of the play &mdash; a dismal Sunday morning but this time it's Helena at the ironing board. Months have passed. Jimmy is notably more pleasant to Helena than he was to Alison in Act 1. She actually laughs at his jokes, and the men get into another music hall comedy routine. This time the horseplay reveals a half-written letter from Helena to Alison, referring to an ongoing correspondence between them. Helena tears it up. A scene is inserted in the garden of the Redfern family home. Alison is very pregnant, and some remarks indicate that the pregnancy may be precarious. Alison's mother passes by and has one line of dialogue.The role was played by Phyllis Neilson-Terry, a very accomplished stage actress. IMDB tells us that she was paid ₤200 for two days on the set At the market, Cliff announces that he's decided to strike out on his own. Jimmy is visibly disappointed but doesn't try to stop him, only later advising him to "try washing your socks". Jimmy and Helena go to the railway station to see Cliff off &mdash; an interesting period scene complete with an authentic steam locomotive of the era. Jimmy reveals his affection for Cliff and tells him he is worth "ten Helenas" to him. When Jimmy and Helena go into the station bar for a drink, they discover Alison sitting disconsolately there. Jimmy snaps over his shoulder "Friend of yours to see you" and abruptly leaves. The remaining scenes, originally set in the claustrophobic attic flat, are played out at the train station amidst atmospheric steam, smoke, and condensation from the actors' breath in the cold. Helena realises that what she's done is immoral and she in turn decides to leave. The screenplay ends with a major surprise—a highly sentimental reconciliation between Jimmy and Alison. They revive the old game of bears and squirrels, and we are left to assume that they live, if not happily, at least in a state of truce in the class warfare, ever after.Before a major motor race a man is hired by a racing team to steal the plans of a rival team. However when he is disturbed in the middle of the theft, he is forced to shoot his way out. He is then hunted down by agents of the team.The action takes place during World War II and follows the adventures of young undergraduate Stanley Windrush , who is conscripted into the British Army. Unlike his friend Egan ([[Peter Jones , Windrush is a most reluctant soldier and struggles through basic training at Gravestone barracks. Failing his officer selection board, he is posted to a holding unit, under the command of Major Hitchcock. Most of the soldiers there are malingerers and drop-outs. Windrush is finally posted to train as a Japanese interpreter, where he becomes the prize pupil; he's then contacted by his uncle, now a senior officer in the War Office, to join a secret operation known only as "Hatrack". He is quickly commissioned and the operation is launched, ostensibly to recover looted artworks from the Germans but really to steal them and sell them to two very dodgy art dealers. Windrush survives the operation, despite being briefly arrested by British forces whilst in German uniform and is discharged from the army. He returns to University but when some of the artworks are found to have identical copies in circulation, the game is up.Sach buys a magic lamp containing a Genie. A group of gangsters see the boys using the lamp and steal it. However, the boys had made a wish that only the Slip and Sach could request wishes from the Genie so he is unable to grant the gangsters wishes. The gangsters decide that if the two of them were dead then the Genie would have no choice but to obey their commands. The Genie has taken a liking to the boys and helps them escape, but they are transported back to Baghdad where the true master of the lamp resides, leaving Slip and Sach without any more wishes. The Genie, feeling sorry for them, grants them one more wish, which Sach uses to "wish I had the nerve to sock him  in the chin", which the Genie grants.The film follows big band leader Glenn Miller   from his early days in the music business in 1929 through to his 1944 death when the airplane he was flying in was lost over the English Channel during World War II. Prominent placement in the film is given to Miller's courtship and marriage to Helen Burger , and various cameos by actual musicians who were colleagues of Miller. Several turning points in Miller's career are depicted with varying degrees of verisimilitude, including: the success of an early jazz band arrangement; his departure from the Broadway pit and sideman work to front a band of his own; the failure of his first band on the road; and the subsequent re-forming of his successful big band and the establishment of the “Miller Sound” as typified by “Moonlight Serenade”. Also depicted is Miller’s international success touring his band in support of the Allies in World War II. There are several anachronisms in the picture. When the military band led by Miller is playing in front of General "Hap" Arnold, a B29 bomber is in the background; highly doubtful, since they were introduced in May 1944, and the parade seemingly is in 1942, just after Miller's induction into the Army. Also, the marching troops are desegregated, which didn't happen until 1948.Malcolm Smith  wins a brand new automobile at a raffle. Steve Wiley , a gambler from New York, obtains a counterfeit of the winning ticket and also claims that the car is his. The raffle's manager declares them both winners and that they can split the car any way that they want. Steve wants to sell the car, but Malcolm wants to drive it to Hollywood to meet the actress Anita Ekberg. Steve claims to know her and agrees to drive to Hollywood with Malcolm, secretly planning to steal the car. Malcolm brings along his dog, a huge Great Dane named Mr. Bascomb who foils Steve in his many attempts to make off with the car. Along the way they pick up Terry , an aspiring dancer, who has a job for her waiting in Las Vegas. Once there, Malcolm gets his "lucky feeling" and wins $10,000 at a casino. In addition, the woman of his dreams, Anita Ekberg, is also at the hotel and Malcolm finally gets to meet her, with hilarious results. Steve begins to show a change of heart. He not only agrees to go along with Malcolm to Hollywood without stealing the car, but he also proposes to Terry. Malcolm spoils the mood by telling them that he no longer has any of his casino winnings, having used it on a gift for Anita. Steve decides to retrieve the gift and they head to Paramount Pictures to locate her. After some back-lot adventures, they find Anita, who agrees to return the gift in exchange for the services of Mr. Bascomb in her next movie.Mob-connected union boss Johnny Friendly  gloats about his iron-fisted control of the waterfront. The police and the Waterfront Crime Commission know that Friendly is behind a number of murders, but witnesses play "D and D" , accepting their subservient position rather than risk the danger and shame of informing. Terry Malloy  is a dockworker whose brother Charley  is Friendly's right hand man. Some years earlier, Terry had been a promising boxer until Friendly had Charley instruct him to deliberately lose a fight that he could have won, so that Friendly could win money betting against him. Terry is used to coax a popular dockworker, Joey Doyle , out to an ambush, preventing him from testifying against Friendly before the Crime Commission. Terry resents being used as a tool in Joey's death but is still willing to remain "D and D". Terry meets and is smitten by the murdered Joey Doyle's sister, Edie , who has shamed "waterfront priest" Father Barry  into fomenting action against the mob-controlled union. Soon both Edie and Father Barry are urging Terry to testify. Another dockworker, Kayo Dugan, who agrees to testify after Father Barry's promise of unwavering support, ends up dead after Friendly arranges for him to be crushed by a load of whiskey in a staged accident. As Terry, tormented by his awakening conscience, increasingly leans toward testifying, Friendly decides that Terry must be killed unless Charley can coerce him into keeping quiet. Charley tries bribing Terry with a good job, and finally threatens him by holding a gun up against him, but recognizes he has failed to sway Terry, who places the blame for his own downward spiral on his well-off brother. In one of the most famous scenes in film history, Terry reminds Charley that if it had not been for the fixed fight, "I coulda been a contender." Charley gives Terry a gun and advises him to run. Friendly has been spying on the situation, so he has Charley murdered, his body hanged in an alley as bait to get at Terry. Terry sets out to shoot Friendly, but Father Barry obstructs that course of action and finally convinces Terry to fight Friendly by testifying. After the testimony, Friendly announces that Terry will not find employment anywhere on the waterfront. Edie tries to persuade him to leave the waterfront with her, but he nonetheless shows up during recruitment at the docks. When he is the only man not hired, Terry openly confronts Friendly, proclaiming that he is proud of what he did. Finally, the confrontation develops into a vicious brawl, with Terry getting the upper hand until Friendly's thugs gang up on Terry and beat him nearly to death. The dockworkers, who witnessed the confrontation, declare their support for Terry and refuse to work unless Terry is working too. Finally, the badly wounded Terry forces himself to his feet and enters the dock, followed by the other longshoremen despite Friendly's threats.An intern is shot mysteriously on an East River pier adjoining Bellevue Hospital. The chief investigating detective views this as a difficult case, so with the cooperation of the Commissioner of Hospitals he assigns a detective who had been a medical corpsman, Fred Rowan of the Confidential Squad, to go undercover as intern "Fred Gilbert." Rowan becomes involved with the attractive nurse Ann Sebastian , and also becomes friendly with the popular elevator operator, Pop Ware . Ware, who works part-time taking bets, seems initially to be a benign character. But it becomes apparent that Ware has been loaning money to the interns, including the slain intern and another intern, Rowan's roommate Steve Anderson , who is depressed and commits suicide. Rowan deliberately loses money betting with Ware, and Ware says that Rowan can pay off his bet by stealing "white stuf" -- narcotics. Rowan plays along, encouraged by Ann Sebastian. He stops providing drugs to Ware. Ware tries to kill Rowan, and is shot in a shootout on the roof of the hospital. Investigators find that the nurse was worked as a courier for Ware. The movie ends with Rowan, turning aside pleas from Ann, placing her under arrest.Montana housewife Hattie O'Malley boards a train bound for New York because she's on her way to collect a prize she's won from a radio program. Getting on board in Chicago is criminal attorney John J. Malone, whose client, Steve Kepplar, just released from prison in Joliet, still owes him $10,000. Suspicion exists that Kepplar himself will be on the train, heading to New York to retrieve $100,000 he previously stashed from a robbery. Chicago detective Tim Marino is a passenger. So is the ex-convict's business partner, Myron Brynk, and his moll, a looker named Lola. Kepplar is indeed along for the ride, disguised as a sailor. Lola is in on it, hiding him in her compartment. But soon his dead body is found, followed by hers. More and more, the detective comes to believe lawyer Marino and even Hattie could be involved in this, but Brynk turns out to be the man he's after.{{plot}} Sometime in the late 1950s, mankind has achieved the capability of manned space flight and built a space station in orbit around the Earth, headed by Colonel Merritt, whose son, Barney, a Captain, is feeling a little homesick. At the moment, the space station's personnel have been at work constructing a giant spaceship to go to the moon, but on one occasion, a crew member becomes a victim of space fatigue after failing to connect a wire on time. Later on, as Colonel Merritt has taken his men to the galley for dinner, the space station is lightly damaged by a meteor shower, but damages are soon repaired. After the incident, an inspector comes up from Earth and  gives Merritt fresh orders from the president: not only is Merritt being promoted to General, but the so called moonship is going to Mars instead. As General Merritt selects three men and an officer to go with him, his close friend Sgt Mahoney is turned down for being twenty years too old, although three months younger than the General. Merritt's son changes his mind about returning to Earth, and volunteers for the mission. Sgt Imoto expresses his view on the Martian mission, explaining how Japan, before World War Two, served as an example for a world becoming overpopulated and about to run out of valuable resources. After the selected crew members watch a news broadcast wishing them farewell, the Mars mission sets off, only for the General to find that Sgt Mahoney stowed away by hiding in one of the spacesuits. En route, something goes wrong with the communication antenna, so two men go out on a spacewalk to make repairs. They manage to get the antenna working just in time as the monitor shows an asteroid, twenty times bigger than the Mars ship, coming at them from the stern. Thanks to the general, the ship manages to avoid a collision, but meteors from the asteroid kill one of the spacewalking astronauts by puncturing an airline, leaving the crew to abandon him in space. Eight months later, as the crew approaches Mars, the general becomes increasingly disturbed , and as they come in for a landing and the "space speed indicator" approaches zero, he suddenly says "We haven't the right!" and puts on full throttle. His son, now the captain of the mission, struggles with him, wrenches his hand from the throttle, and brings the ship in to a rough but safe landing. Later, as the crew takes their first steps on the Martian surface, they spot water leaking from the rocket. Getting aboard quickly the captain discovers the saboteur is the general. In a fight with his son , the two struggle and Captain Merritt fires his father's gun, killing the General. Sgt. Mahoney, who'd seen the last stages of the fight, threatens to have Captain Merritt confined for his actions. The crew discovers, apparently surprised, that Mars is inhospitable and that that it is going to be a severe struggle to survive with their limited water for the year it will take for Earth to reach the right orbital position for a successful return. Despite the absence of water on Mars, like the child in Ruth Krauss's book The Carrot Seed, Japanese crew member Sgt. Imoto plants a seed hopefully in the Martian soil. The crew celebrates Christmas on Mars glumly. Wisecracking Brooklynite Sgt. Siegle plays Christmas carols somberly on a harmonica while the other actors chew the scenery. Siegle complains they are on "a lousy, dried-up ball in the corner pocket of nowhere." :Sgt. Mahoney: The General wasn't crazy, he was right! We asked for it! There's a curse on this ship and everybody in it! :Sgt. Siegle: Baloney! You leave that stuff back on Earth. But it don't operate past the thousand-mile limit. "Only God can make a tree." Okay? Where is it? Where's the trees, and the flowers, and the grass? Where's the water? You hear me? Where's the water?! Just then, Sgt. Imoto, who has been staring out the window yells "Look!" Since it is snowing on Christmas Day, the crew is saved and they manage to replenish their water supply. In due course, as the launch date approaches, the seed Imoto planted sprouts into a tiny flower. The viewer infers that Mars has water and can grow flowers; since "only God can make a tree," God is present on Mars and God must intend for humankind to exploit not only the Earth but also Mars and the rest of the universe. The joy over the discovery of the flower is, however, short lived as the crew hear rumbling sounds and see rocks falling and cavities opening up in the ground, proving that Mars has underground water. The ground sinks slightly under the ship and even though the ship doesn't sink into the ground, it is leaning at an angle too risky to make an emergency liftoff. The crew then decides to try a more risky but desperate attempt to straighten up the ship: using the ship's motors to open up a new cavity, which does work, and the ship lifts off before the ground collapses. As the movie closes, Sgt. Mahoney, who had threatened to accuse Capt. Merritt of murdering his own father on their return, changes his mind and decides that it would be better to forget about it and let the world remember the general not as a nutcase who tried to sabotage the flight but as a brave man "sacrificin' his life as he did, to bring his ship and his crew safely to a landing on the rocky desert of a new planet! … Fittin' end for a grand soldier." The captain nods and adds, "For the man who conquered space." The Irishman offers him "a cup o' tea", the captains says "thanks", the music rises to a climax, and the rocket glides off into a starry firmament behind the words "THE END."Marsha Mitchell , a traveling dress model, stops in the southern town of Rockpoint to see her newly wed sister Lucy Rice . Within minutes of entering the town she observes unusual behavior by the townsfolk, such as dozens of people closing up shop and getting out of sight. As she walks down the almost pitch dark main street, she observes loud noises coming from the town police station. She hides and observes a drunken KKK mob beating and berating a man they had just broke out of prison. The man untangles himself from their clutches and runs, but only gets several yards before shotgun shots are fired from the mob, shooting him dead in both the chest and head. Confused, the mob approaches the fallen man, arguing amongst themselves. Marsha, who is hiding herself around the corner from the crime scene gets a good look at the two men who removed their hoods during the fiasco. After the mob quickly leaves the scene, Marsha runs to the nearby bowling alley where her sister is employed. Lucy quickly notices the shocked and horrified look on her sister's face and inquires. Marsha tells her about the murder she just witnessed, which brings Lucy to tell her about the journalism of Walter Adams, whom she believes must have been the man who was slain. She explains that Adams arrived in town somewhat recently and was employed by the phone company, but was secretly a journalist writing defaming material about the town's klavern. The police decided to put an end to his journalism and arrested him on false charges of driving while intoxicated. Lucy brings Marsha to her house and encourages her to tell her husband Hank about the situation. However, there is a problem- the instant Marsha is introduced to him she recognizes him as one of the two men who removed their hoods. Within minutes when she and Lucy are alone , she tells her that her husband was one of the Klansmen. An eavesdropping Hank, with a clear look of guilt on his face, denies everything. However, within minutes he's not able to hold his own against Marsha's verbal evidence, and confesses. He sobs and says he was drunk and was forced to go with them to the scene, and did not mean for the man to die- all they wanted to do, according to Hank, was talk to the guy and persuade him to leave and stop defaming their town. Hank then desperately tries to persuade Marsha to keep her mouth shut, for the sake of his life and his marriage to her sister, who is pregnant. Lucy forgives her husband and decides that he was simply a part of something that was beyond his control. Marsha, still viewing him as a vile person, reluctantly agrees to leave town and "forget" about the incident. District Attorney Burt Rainey  arrives at the murder scene and inquires to the police as to how they could let a mob break through their doors and kidnap one of their prisoners, reminding them that it is their duty to protect them. They claimed that they were simply outnumbered- Rainey, however, is skeptical of that excuse and insinuates that he thinks they were an accomplice. He then arrives at the bowling alley and questions Charlie Barr , the Imperial Wizard of the town's KKK, and gets no results. He then learns about Marsha and orders her to his office. Many townsfolk attempt to dissuade Rainey from investigating the case, for fear of him destroying the town's reputation and economy. At his office, Rainey questions Marsha and gets a half-truth; that she saw Klansmen, but did not get a look at their faces, which she claimed were covered by hoods. Rainey is satisfied and believes that the mere fact that she saw Klansmen is all he needs to bring them down. He hands her a subpoena for the speedy trial that takes place that same day. Under pressure from both her sister and the Klansmen, she decides to lie in court, allowing the jury to decide that Adams was "killed by assailant or assailants unknown." The KKK, along with the sympathetic townsfolk celebrates at the bowling alley, while berating those that were against them. Disgusted with herself, Marsha packs up her stuff at Lucy's house so she can leave town. However, a drunken Hank arrives home and corners her, asking her repeatedly why she dislikes him. He then gets violent and tries to rape her, which is broken up by the arrival of Lucy. Lucy finally denounces him, and Marsha then tells him that she has rethought her testimony and is going to turn him in to Rainey and the police. Furious, he kidnaps her and his wife and brings them to the KKK rally. At the rally, they whip Marsha seven times before being broken up by the arrival of Rainey and the police. Barr orders his men to hide Marsha and keep her quiet. As Rainey appears before him, Barr threatens him and tells him to leave. Rainey ignores him and snoops around, finding a weeping Marsha being held by a couple of Klansmen. He then confronts Barr and demands answers. Desperate, Barr names Hank as the culprit to the murder. Hank, stealing a sidearm from one of the Klansmen, shouts in fury damning everyone, and shoots his wife, which is followed by a police officer shooting him down with an automatic weapon, killing him. Scared and disillusioned, the rest of the Klansmen, many of them dropping their attire, leave the scene, leaving Barr, the grand wizard, to fend for himself. The police arrest Barr, and the film ends with Lucy dying in Marsha's arms, with Rainey comforting her.Duke recounts the days of when he and the rest of the Bowery Boys served in World War II. During the war, the boys' seargent, who gets fed up with Duke and Sach, gladly gives them the duties of a suicide mission. The duo go under cover as German soldiers to deliver a message to a sultan.Scientists have developed a weapon, called the "Super H-bomb", which if detonated will wipe out the human race entirely. A "High Tribunal" in "The Great Court of Outer Space" is called upon to decide whether divine intervention should be allowed to stop the bomb's detonation. The Devil , who goes by the name of Mr. Scratch, prosecutes mankind while the Spirit of Man  defends it. Price and Colman are allowed to take the tribunal to any period of time to present evidence for mankind's salvation or damnation. They take the tribunal from prehistory through Egyptian, Greco-Roman, medieval, Renaissance, Enlightenment and modern times, looking at historical figures played by a host of guest stars.Theatrical agent Al Stewart  has successfully booked his client, Dorothy McCoy , "The Manhattan Hillbilly", at a New York nightclub. Unfortunately, he has also booked an inept escape artist, The Great Wilbert , at the same location. During his performance, Wilbert cannot escape from his shackles and screams for help. Dorothy recognizes Wilbert's shrill scream as the 'McCoy clan yell'. More evidence of Wilbert's heritage, namely a photograph and concertina, are found in his dressing room, and prove that he is the long-lost grandson of 'Squeeze Box' McCoy, leader of the McCoy clan. Granny McCoy  has been looking for Wilbert, as she will reveal where Squeeze Box hid his gold to 'kin folk' only. Al, Dorothy and Wilbert head to Kentucky, and Granny recounts the story of the McCoy-Winfield feud that began over sixty years ago. The McCoys choose Wilbert to represent them against Devil Dan Winfield  in a turkey shoot. Wilbert has never even seen a gun before, and his carelessness leads to a revival of the feud. Granny informs Wilbert that even though he is Squeeze Box's kin, he must get married before the location of the gold can be revealed. Wilbert proposes to Dorothy, who declines because she is in love with Clark Winfield . Wilbert then goes to Aunt Huddy  to obtain a love potion to use on Dorothy. While obtaining the potion, Huddy and Wilbert make voodoo dolls of each other and proceed to stick pins in them, which inflicts pain in the other person. After finally obtaining the potion, Wilbert gets on Huddy's broom , flies through the door, and crashes into a tree. The potion initially works well, as Dorothy does fall for Wilbert, but unfortunately, everyone gets a sip of the concoction and falls in love. The potion's effects eventually fade, and Clark and Dorothy prepare to marry. The Winfield clan soon arrive ready for a fight, during which a stray bullet breaks the love potion jar, leading Devil Dan to taste it and fall for Wilbert. Soon afterwards, a map leading to the treasure is found in Wilbert's concertina. Devil Dan helps them enter the mine, where they eventually break through the rock, finding themselves in a vault filled with gold. Armed guards arrive to arrest the hapless treasure seekers, who have just broken into Fort Knox.In late 1950s America, a drunken drifter, Larry Rhodes , is plucked out of a rural Arkansas jail by Marcia Jeffries  to sing on a radio show at station KGRK. His raw voice, folksy humor and personal charm bring about a strong local following, and he lands a television show in Memphis, Tennessee under the stage name "Lonesome" Rhodes, given to him on a whim by Jeffries. With the support of the show's staff writer Mel Miller  and Jeffries, the charismatic Rhodes ad libs his way to Memphis area popularity. When he pokes fun at his sponsor, a mattress company, they initially pull their ads— but when his adoring audience revolts, burning mattresses in the street, the sponsor discovers that Rhodes's irreverent pitches actually increased sales by 55%, and returns to the air with a new awareness of his power of persuasion. Rhodes also begins an affair with Jeffries. An ambitious office worker at the mattress company, Joey DePalma , puts together a deal for Rhodes to star in his own show in New York City. The sponsor is Vitajex, an energy supplement which he ingeniously pitches as a yellow pill which will make men energetic and sexually powerful. Rhodes's fame, influence and ego balloon. Behind the scenes, he berates his staff and betrays Jeffries by eloping with a 17-year-old drum majorette . The onetime drifter and his new bride move into a luxury penthouse, while a furious Jeffries demands more money and credit for her role in Rhodes's success. The sponsor's CEO introduces Rhodes to a senator named Fuller whose presidential campaign is faltering. Under Rhodes's tutelage as media coach, the senator gains the lead in national polls. But Rhodes's life begins to unravel as his amoral dealings with the people closest to him have placed his career trajectory on a collision course with their festering wounds. A woman  turns up claiming to be his legitimate wife. He also goes home early to find his agent and young wife ending a tryst. He returns to Marcia Jeffries to proclaim that with the election victory assured, he will soon serve on the President's cabinet as "Secretary For National Morale," as a part of his organization called "Fighters for Fuller." He also expects Jeffries to resume her romance with him. She runs away. Miller tells Jeffries he's written an exposé about Rhodes, entitled "Demagogue in Denim," and he has just found a publisher. Ultimately, Rhodes's descent into fame and arrogance begins to turn on him. DePalma threatens to reveal Rhodes's own secrets if the affair with the young wife is made public, claiming that he and Rhodes are now part of the same corruption. Rhodes is stuck with his business partner, but cruelly dumps his cheating wife. The final blow is delivered by the one who has loved Rhodes the most and been most injured by his selfishness: Marcia Jeffries. At the end of one of Rhodes's shows, the engineer cuts the microphone and leaves Jeffries alone in the control booth while the show's credits roll. Millions of viewers watch  their hero Rhodes smiling and seeming to chat amiably with the rest of the cast. In truth, he's on a vitriolic rant about the stupidity of his audience. In the broadcast booth, Jeffries reactivates his microphone, sending his words and laughter over the air live. A sequence of television viewers is shown to react to Rhodes's description of them all as "idiots, morons, and guinea pigs." Still unaware that his words have gone out over the air waves , he departs the penthouse studio in a jovial mood and prophetically tells the elevator operator that he's going "all the way down." As the elevator numbers go down to 0, the ratings of the show go down as well, due to Rhodes' insults. Rhodes arrives at his penthouse, where he was to meet with the nation's business and political elite. Instead he finds an empty space, except for a group of African American butlers and servants, by whom, in desperation, he demands to be loved. When they don't respond, Rhodes dismisses all of them. Rhodes calls the studio and Jeffries listens to him rant as he threatens to jump to his death from the penthouse. Jeffries, who has been silent, suddenly screams at Rhodes, telling him to jump and to get out of hers and everybody's lives. Miller asks her angrily why did she not tell Rhodes the whole truth. Jeffries and Miller go to the penthouse and Rhodes is drunk and disconnected from reality. He shouts folksy platitudes and sings at the top of his lungs while his longtime flunky Beanie  works an applause machine — Rhodes's own invention — to replace the cheers, applause, and laughter of the audience that has abandoned him. When he vows to get revenge on the TV studio's engineer, Jeffries admits it was she who betrayed him. She demands he never call her again, and Miller tells Rhodes that life as he knew it is over. Miller bemoans the fact that Rhodes is not really destroyed at all. Both the public’s and the network’s need for Rhodes, will, “after a reasonable cooling off period” of remorse and contrition, he predicts, return Rhodes to the public eye, but never to his previous height of power of success. Rhodes ends up screaming from the window of his penthouse for Marcia Jeffries to come back as she leaves in a taxi with Miller, while a Coca-Cola sign continuously flashes off and on.Major Robert Parrish of the 7th Cavalry is considered by some to be his own worst enemy due to his not being a "team player". Formerly one of the youngest Colonels in the Union Army during the War Between the States he is now a company commander under Colonel, formerly General George Custer. His fiancée Kathy, the daughter of Parrish's Commanding General, breaks off their engagement thinking him a loser because he has not risen in rank. Parrish gains no friends amongst the civilian community when he chastises them and threatens to "break heads" when they violate Sioux lands. Custer and Parrish's exasperated General and once prospective father in law reassigns Parrish and his company to the Bureau of Indian Affairs where once again Parrish's integrity damages his career potential when he is outraged at the treatment of the Indians and refuses to carry out the orders of the Indian Agent to shoot his escaping charges. Parrish is court maritaled and visits his former Commanding General now President of the United States Ulysses S. Grant who demotes him to Captain. Parrish does talk the President into coming to the Western frontier to meet up with Chief Sitting Bull to prevent a war. Back in the West, now Captain Parrish meets Kathy who has announced her engagement with Charles Wentworth, a former Major and now a war correspondent. Using some captured Indians, including Sam, a former slave now a Sioux, Parrish meets with Sitting Bull who agrees to meet the President in a secret meeting. Further conflicts with the Sioux leads Custer to lead his Regiment out assigning Parrish to guard supplies. Following the Battle of the Little Bighorn that eliminates Custer, most of his men, and his romantic rival Wentworth, Parrish tries to smooth over things with Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse. As Parrish knows the US Army's plan of attack, he leads the Sioux to safety in the North. Parrish has really done it this time and is court martialed again, stripped of his rank and sentenced to death by firing squad for treason.At a shareholders meeting for International Projects, a billion dollar corporation, John T. Blessington ([[John Williams  announces that he is replacing Edward L. McKeever , the company's founder, president and chairman of the board, as McKeever is resigning to go work for the federal government in Washington DC. Laura Partridge , a minority stockholder with just ten shares of stock, drives its arrogant, self-serving executives to distraction with her incessant questioning during this and subsequent meetings. Blessington comes up with the idea of hiring the struggling actress as Director of Shareholder Relations to keep her occupied answering letters from small shareholders. He assigns her a secretary, Amelia Shotgraven , with secret instructions to obstruct her as much as possible. The conscientious Miss Partridge, discovering there is nothing for her to do, decides to write the stockholders herself. She gains Amelia's friendship and wholehearted assistance by helping her develop a romantic relationship with office manager Mark Jenkins . When the directors find out, they fire Amelia. However, Laura discovers that Blessington's thoroughly unqualified brother-in-law, Harry Harkness , has driven a competitor into bankruptcy, unaware that International Projects owns the unfortunate company. With that as leverage, she gets Amelia rehired. Still determined to neutralize Laura, the board decides to send her to Washington to persuade McKeever to give them some government contracts. She agrees to go, with the secret intention of trying to convince him to return and take back control from his crooked cronies. However, the company directors recall that he has divested himself of all his shares and is thus powerless, so they brush him off. McKeever takes them to court, arguing that Laura was an unlicensed, illegal lobbyist, but when she is forced to admit on the stand that she had another, romantic reason for seeing him, the case is dropped. However, Laura has forged a warm relationship with many of the smaller investors while working at the company; they responded and sent in their proxies, giving her the right to vote their shares. McKeever uses these votes to replace the entire board. He later marries Laura. In gratitude for rescuing the company, the shareholders make a gift of a solid gold Cadillac to the happy couple.In the opening shot, a car pulls up to an historical marker in the desert that reads:  ROCKY MOUNTAIN, also known as Ghost Mountain. On March 26, 1865, a detachment of Confederate cavalry crossed the state line into California under secret orders from Gen. Robert E. Lee to rendezvous at Ghost Mountain with one Cole Smith, with instructions to place the flag atop the mountain, and though their mission failed, the heroism displayed by these gallant men honored the cause for which they fought so valiantly. Eight horsemen trek across the California desert, arriving at Ghost Mountain. Led by Captain Lafe Barstow of the Mississippi Mounted Rifles, the eight encounter a man calling himself California Beal, an envoy from Cole Smith. Barstow&#39;s mission is to persuade Smith and his 500 men to raid California on behalf of the Confederacy as a last desperate effort to turn the tide of the war. From their vantage point on the mountain, the men see a Shoshone war party attack a stagecoach. Barstow&#39;s men charge and drive off the Shoshone after the stage overturns, rescuing driver Gil Craigie and the only surviving passenger, Johanna Carter, traveling to join her fiancé, Union Army officer Lt. Rickey. That night, the Indians burn the stage. Next morning, a detachment of four Union soldiers and three Shoshone scouts examine the ashes. Barstow&#39;s men ambush the detachment, killing one and capturing the rest, including Lt. Rickey. From them, Barstow learns that the Union knows about their presence in California and that California Beal is actually Cole Smith himself. Smith leaves, promising to return in two days with his men. Craigie talks with the Shoshone scouts and learns that they are really a chief, Man Dog, and his sons. He warns Barstow that they will escape and return with their tribe. That night, while Jimmy is on watch, the Indians try to escape. The soldiers kill two of them, but Man Dog evades their bullets. In the morning, Rickey suggests that he take Johanna to a nearby garrison before the Indians arrive. Barstow, however, hopes that Smith&#39;s men will come before the Indians do and rejects the suggestion. Near dawn, Rickey&#39;s men jump their guards. One dies in the attempt, and another recaptured, but Rickey makes his escape. The Southerners find a riderless horse but it turns out to be Smith&#39;s, not Rickey&#39;s, and they realize that help is not coming. Barstow decides to use all his men to lure the Indians away from the mountain while Johanna, Craigie and the Union trooper escape. The greatly outnumbered Rebels ride into a box canyon and turn to fight, charging the Shoshone. During the battle, Rickey returns with a troop of Union cavalry, and Johanna tells Rickey what has happened. The cavalry attempt to save Barstow&#39;s men but are too late; all the Southerners have been killed. Rickey raises their rebel flag on top of Rocky Mountain to salute the bravery of their fallen foes.In a prologue, Edmund "Pat" Brown, who was the California Attorney General at the time of the film's production, makes a statement directly to the viewer, attesting to the veracity of the film's story and to the societal scourge presented by drug trafficking. The film then opens with a police car chase through Orange County, California, which ends with the fleeing vehicle crashing, killing both of its occupants. It turns out that both were drug addicts and under the influence at the time of the chase. At a hearing, one of the boys' aunt, an attractive young mother and housewife named Phyllis Carter , angrily denounces police efforts to control the flow of illegal narcotics. Later, she comes to the police offering to volunteer her services as an undercover narcotics agent. The police originally reject her offer, but after discovering that their primary source of information on a particular gang of drug smugglers has been murdered, they reconsider. Ralph Carter , Phyllis' husband, initially laughs off the idea, but when he finds out that the police actually want make use of Phyllis, he becomes worried. He consents on the condition that should he ever ask her to quit, she and the police will comply. Phyllis Carter is provided with a new identity: Lynn Stuart, an ex-convict from West Virginia who had served 18 months in prison for her part in a bank robbery. She is also given a job as a waitress in a local diner, where members of the targeted gang are known by police to congregate. The police direct her to Willie Down , whom they suspect might be able to lead them to the head of the outfit. Eventually, Carter, acting the role of Lynn Stuart, indeed does catch Down's attention and she becomes his girlfriend. As she becomes closer to Down, Carter learns many of the ins-and-outs of the drug smuggling operation in which Down is involved. She reports her information back to police and says that she believes she is getting closer to being able to identify the top men in the operation. However, her home life suffers and her husband insists that she quit, which she agrees to do after the next day. But during that next day, Down pulls her deeply into a plan to hijack a competing gang's drug shipment. In the meantime, Carter's son is hospitalized with pneumonia, and the authorities are unable to contact her to inform her. After robbing the drug shipment from its drivers, Down murders them and the informant he had used from the competing gang. Carter is extremely unnerved by the killings, but can find no way to extricate herself from Down. When they stop at a gas station, she leaves a note in the restroom instructing whomever finds it to contact the police for her and direct them to the motel being used by the gang. Back at the motel, Carter's nervous and frightened behavior continues, which concerns both Down and the gang's leader Doc ([[John Anderson . When she hears a radio report that authorities are searching for Phyllis Carter, whose son is very ill, she flies into near-hysterics. Although they still do not know the truth about her, Doc and Down decide that her behavior is too much of a risk to them and that Down will kill her. Before he can do so, though, police raid the motel, having been contacted by a gas station attendant who found Carter's note. They take all of the criminals into custody and inform Carter that her son is going to be alright. After giving testimony to a grand jury, Carter is reunited with her husband and son. The family is relocated to Denver, with the Doc and his gang never knowing her true identity.Fort Bravo is a Union prison camp run by a strict Captain Roper . A pretty woman named Carla Forester  shows up to help free the prisoners, especially Confederate Captain John Marsh . Roper falls in love with her , so he has an additional motive to recapture the escapees. He does just that, but on the way back to the fort, they are attacked by fierce Mescalero Indians who are hostile to both sides and trapped in a shallow exposed depression. Roper frees and arms his prisoners, but even then, it looks like the Indians will wipe them out. One by one, they are killed. The next morning, to try to save Carla, Roper makes it look like he is the only one left alive and walks out in plain view. He is wounded, but the cavalry comes to the rescue just in time.A female reporter, Nagako Kita  is fired for writing about police corruption. To make money she hides while a weekly magazine publishes photos of her, and offers a prize to the person who discovers her. A group of three bank embezzlers, Sō Yamamura, Eiji Funakoshi, and Sotoji Mukui  employ Mukui's younger sister Fukiko as a fake employee at the bank and plan to make her disappear when the real woman appears again and blame the crime on her. When she contacts Mukui about the crime, she finds him dead and Fukiko pulls a gun on her. She contacts the policeman who was fired, who is now a private detective.The Stooges play janitors who work at a newspaper office, begging to be given a chance to become reporters. The managing editor  promises to think about it over dinner. The phone rings while he is out and Moe answers. The person on the other end is one of the boss's reporters, Smitty , who relays a scoop to Moe that some important documents have been stolen by foreign spies. Coincidentally, the spy with the microfilmed documents, Mr. Borscht  lives next door to the Stooges. He and the boys wind up as stowaways on an ocean liner. Stranded on a freighter on the high seas, and sustained by eating salami, the boys eventually overtake Borscht, recover the microfilm, and are thrilled with their newspaper scoop.During the last days of the Civil War, President Lincoln  selects Indian scout James Kingston  to facilitate a cattle shipment from Texas to the north. He is helped by cattle driver O’Roarke  and Maj. McGuire . Mexican fanatic Joaquin Jironza  wants the Henry Repeating Rifles that Kingston has. Embittered ex-rebel leader Lee Parker  is also an obstacle to Kingston's mission, as he tries to get the cattle through Apache territory.Kiichi Nakajima , an elderly foundry owner convinced that Japan will be affected by an imminent nuclear war, resolves to move his family to safety in Brazil.{{cite web}} His family decides to have him ruled incompetent and Dr. Harada , a Domestic Court counselor, attempts to arbitrate.On foot after the mercy killing of his horse, Wes Steele finds a stagecoach and a number of dead passengers. He takes a horse and rides to Mesa. A corrupt banker, Stanley, and partner Joiner discuss their stagecoach holdup with Clanton, their hired gun. Joiner, upset over the deaths, begins to leave, but Clanton shoots him in the back. Stanley tells townspeople the stranger Steele is responsible for the robbery and murder. Steele hides in the cellar of a house. It turns out to belong to the sheriff, Gil Gorrigan, who has yellow fever. His daughter Nadine is caring for Gil and the home is quarantined. Steele nurses the sheriff back to health after Nadine collapses from fatigue. A grateful Nadine says her dad worries about her but has left her well-provided for the future. She and Steele kiss. He ventures outside, where he confronts and coldcocks Stanley, causing a lynch mob to form. Gil gives the wanted Steele a chance to escape. It turns out the sheriff has been on the take from Stanley, so now a noose is tossed around a tree for him. Steele returns to rescue him. He kills Clanton, and then Stanley is placed under arrest. Told he should leave this town, Steele decides to stick around.Sach receives notice that a dying British earl is his long-lost relative. He travels there with the rest of the gang after exchanging his free first-class ticket for four economy class tickets. Meanwhile, Louie, who is on board to say goodbye, gets locked in a closet and becomes a stowaway. When the boys arrive in London they are treated with disdain from the earl's other relatives, who are secretly plotting to kill the earl. Sach livens up the earl by telling him to eat ice cream instead of his medicine, and generally making him laugh. The earl's health begins to improve and he decides to make Sach is sole heir. The other relatives decide they need to kill off the earl immediately, but are foiled by the boys. Unfortunately just before the earl is to sign the paperwork making Sach the heir, his lawyer arrives and informs them that he made an error and Sach isn't really his relative.Al Munch  is an American private eye who served in Sydney during World War Two and decided to stay on. He is hired by Hollywood film producer, Frankoff, to find Joe Barton, an American crime figure thought to be dead but who is now said to be alive in Australia. Frankof has made a film of his life but needs a clearance from Barton before he can release it and hires Munch to locate him. Munch contacts a lawyer, Timothy O'Leary, to find Barton, but then O'Leary is murdered. Munch discovers Barton and hands him over to the police for O'Leary's murder.Albert Moran, 'Some beginnings for Australian television: the first Governor-General', Continuum: The Australian Journal of Media & Culture, vol. 4 no 2  Edited by John HartleyRocky Mulloy was sentenced to life in prison for a robbery and murder that he didn't commit. He's released five years later when a witness named Delong appears and provides an alibi. Rocky then sets out to find who framed him, hoping that by uncovering the actual criminals, he'll be able to free his friend Danny Morgan, also accused of the same crime. Delong is lying about the alibi. What he really wants is a share of the missing robbery loot. Rocky insists he wasn't involved. They go see Morgan's wife, Nancy, a former love of Rocky's, who now lives in a trailer park. Police Lt. Gus Cobb keeys an eye on Rocky because he's still convinced of his guilt. Rocky believes that bookie Louis Castro is the mastermind. He demands $50,000 at gunpoint. Castro won't agree to that, but gives him $500 to bet on a fixed horse race. Shots are fired at Delong and girlfriend Darlene near the trailer and she is killed. Nancy believes the intended victims were Rocky and herself. Rocky goes back to Castro and plays Russian roulette until Castro reveals where the robbery money can be found. It turns out Morgan was indeed involved and that Nancy now has his share. Lt. Cobb gradually comes to believe Rocky's innocence. Nancy says she loves him and invites him to run off together with the loot, but Rocky leaves her for the law.At Norfolk Naval Base in the opening months of World War II, Lieutenant John W. Harkness , a newly commissioned officer, reports aboard the PC-1168 unaware that his civilian background in engineering and his Rutgers education has elected him, by means of a hole punched in an IBM card, to head a secret project and command the ship. The Navy has installed a steam engine and an experimental evaporator-condenser in the ship to test its feasibility in patrol craft and has assigned Harkness to conduct the sea trials. The crew of the submarine chaser assume that Harkness is Regular Navy. Her chief boatswain's mate, Chief Larrabee , and her chief machinist's mate are the only experienced seamen aboard. PC-1168s crew are all newly inducted civilians, and her officers recently commissioned "90 day wonders". The exec, Lt.  Barron , is a good-natured idea-man whose knowledge of seamanship is out of books. The engineering officer, Ens. Barbo , has no training, education, or experience in engineering. And the supply-Mess officer, Ens. Dorrance , is plagued by seasickness. After badly damaging bow of the ship their first time underway, Harkness and his officers butt heads with gruff Commander Reynolds , who oversees the project as the representative of Rear Admiral Tennant ([[Ray Collins . The first trial results in the ship being towed into port, disparaged as the "USS Teakettle" by the rest of the base. Reynolds restricts the crew to the ship until they make the system work, and as the failures mount, the crew's morale plummets, threatening the entire project. The officers hit upon a scheme to enter a crewman in the base boxing championship to unite the crew. They train an engine room sailor, Wascylewski , to represent the ship. The crew bets heavily on their shipmate, and to ensure that the "Teakettle" does not fail a sea trial scheduled for the day of the fight, smuggles distilled water aboard. Wascylewski breaks his ribs during the sea trial, forcing Barbo to stand in, but surprisingly he wins the championship. The film climaxes with the Official Sea Trial of the "Teakettle" in which the crew improvises a successful run. Even so, the trial ends in humiliation for the crew when the ship rams an aircraft carrier—again. At the board of inquiry that follows, Admiral Tennant reveals to Harkness that the selection of his crew was no fluke: the Navy already knew that experts could run the system; it needed to see if novice sailors, who made up the overwhelming percentage of the wartime Navy, could quickly learn to operate it.New Orleans big band clarinetist Stan Grayson has a nightmare where he sees himself in a mirrored room killing a man. He wake ups and finds blood on himself, bruises on his neck, and a key from the dream in his hand. He goes to his brother-in-law, police detective Rene Bressard, about the problem but is dismissed. Later, the two men go on a picnic in the country with Grayson's girlfriend and sister. Grayson leads them to an empty house, the house of his dream, when it begins to rain. They are shocked to see that the house has a mirrored room just like in his dream. After it’s found out that a murder did indeed take place, Grayson becomes Bressard's number one suspect. Grayson, stressed out and suicidal, protests his innocence which makes Bressard dig deeper. That leads to them finding out about a hypnotist in Grayson's building that apparently set up the band member for murder.New York City 16th Precinct Police Detective Dixon , who's in trouble with his superiors for his heavy-handed tactics, subjects murder suspect and gambler Ken Paine ([[Craig Stevens  to the third degree - he strikes the drunken Paine in self-defense and accidentally kills him. Paine, however, had a silver plate in his head, a fine war record, and newspaper friends. Dixon then dumps Paine's body in the river, and is later assigned to find his killer. Dixon tries to place the blame on an old gangster enemy, Tommy Scalise , yet, he inadvertently places the blame for the killing on cab driver Jiggs Taylor . Having fallen in love with Jiggs' daughter and Paine's estranged wife, Morgan Taylor-Paine , Dixon tries to clear the cabbie without implicating himself, but ultimately he becomes trapped in a web created by himself. The 16th Precinct commander, Detective Lt. Thomas , Dixon's boss, is convinced that Morgan's father is the killer. Dixon continues to find a way to stop Jiggs from being found guilty of murdering Paine, and also tries to redeem himself. In an attempt to move the evidence away from Morgan's father and blame Scalise, Dixon comes face to face with the gangster and his cronies. A shoot-out leaves Dixon wounded, but the police arrive to arrest Scalice and his mob. Jiggs is finally cleared of the charges. At the end Dixon reassesses his life and decides to confess. He's arrested and goes to jail. He's satisfied that Morgan will wait for him until his release.The film begins with a tank battle where blond-haired Captain Holland  is sprawled unconscious in the dunes. When he comes to, he walks over the dunes until collapsing near a Bedouin encampment at an oasis. He is found by the sheik's daughter, Mabrouka , who takes him to the camp which consists of several black tents. The film skips forward to a point after the war when Captain Holland's brother, Colonel Sir Charles Holland , is guided into the desert by Ali  in search of his brother. They were drawn by a promissory note that had been given by Captain Holland to Bedouins for their assistance and eventually cashed. Sir Charles eventually comes across the Bedouin camp and is entertained by the camp's chief, Sheik Salem ben Yussef  and sees a young blond boy in the camp. Later, the Sheik becomes angry at Sir Charles's line of questioning about his brother, the boy, and note and asks them to leave. Before they leave, Mabrouka gives Ali a sock containing Captain Holland's diary which Ali then gives Sir Charles. The film skips back in time to recount the story within the diary. Captain Holland, having been tended by Mabrouka, recovers. He learns that Mabrouka is the daughter of the sheik and is betrothed to Sheik Faris  from another tribe. When a German reconnaissance vehicle is spotted, Captain Holland hides in some Roman ruins. The senior German officer then finds Holland's service revolver in a tent. Mabrouka and Captain Holland become romantically involved to the obvious annoyance of Sheik Faris. He colludes with the Germans who return to the camp where Holland kills them and Faris. The romance between Captain Holland and Mabrouka deepens and they marry. Learning of the British victory at El Alamein, Captain Holland seeks to return to the British lines but finds out his wife is now pregnant. A group led by the Sheik and Captain Holland travel towards the British lines but came across a column of retreating Italian vehicles. Captain Holland sustains a fatal injury rescuing the Sheik. The film returns to the present day with the Sheik handing Sir Charles a letter with his brother's will bequeathing his estate to his son. Sir Charles discusses this with his nephew but the boy decides to remain with the tribe and burns the letter.A lodge in Kanab, Utah is where Los Angeles lawyer David Hewson goes for a peaceful vacation. He quickly is attracted to Beth Dixon, a switchboard operator and a former personal assistant to lodge owner Edmund Parry. The murder of playgirl Marsha Morgan, her throat cut, disrupts the peace and quiet. Sheriff Holmes begins the investigation, starting with the wheelchair-bound Parry, who admits to hating the dead woman, and Parry's possessive sister Julia, who helps him run the lodge. It turns out David once dated Morgan as well. A new guest, Joseph Felton, checks in. The sheriff's suspects also include guests Norman Grant, a drunken actor, and his ambitious girlfriend, Harriet Ames. A missing kitchen knife believed to be the murder weapon is found by Indian Joe, who works at the lodge. Beth eavesdrops on a phone call Felton makes from his room. Felton is later found killed by a gunshot, and it turns out he was a private detective. David becomes more and more convinced that the Parrys are behind all this. Ames is seen kissing Edmund Parry, which doesn't please Edmund's sister or Grant. To his shock, David arrives as Beth holds a knife to Julia Parry's bloody throat, claiming to have stabbed her in self-defense. It turns out, however, that Edmund had hired the investigator Felton to follow the psychologically disturbed Beth, who is responsible for all the murders.After seizing a British ship, the female pirate captain Anne Providence  spares a Frenchman captured by the British, Pierre LaRochelle  from walking the plank. He agrees to join Providence's crew and soon she begins to fall for the handsome officer. They travel to an island where they meet with her piratical mentor Captain Blackbeard , who takes an instant dislike to LaRochelle although he at first holds back as he can see Anne has affection for him. Blackbeard eventually realises he has seen LaRochelle before in the French navy when a pirate was hanged. When he reveals this, LaRochelle claims he has left the French navy. Anne believes him, but when Blackbeard attacks him she defends him and sends Blackbeard and his men away, making an enemy of Blackbeard. It eventually transpires LaRochelle is working for the British as they have captured his ship, and he has a wife. He betrays Anne to the British who attack her ship. Anne escapes and takes his wife hostage. The British do not return LaRochelle's ship to him, as they did not capture Anne, so LaRochelle gets a ship of his own to go after Anne. In a battle, LaRochelle's ship is destroyed and he is captured. Anne then maroons LaRochelle and his wife on a remote island to die. She sails away, but a few days later her conscience compels her to return with provisions and a small boat. As she does so she is attacked by Blackbeard, instead of fleeing, to stop Blackbeard from finding LaRochelle she stays and fights, even though her ship is no match. Her ship is destroyed, and she is killed.The revised story begins at a hastily established emergency hospital in an evidently devastated Tokyo, to which is brought American reporter Steve Martin , one of the wounded. In flashback, Martin tells of his stopover in Tokyo on a routine assignment to Cairo for United World News, where he finds himself confronted by the emergence of an inexplicable menace to navigation in the Sea of Japan. Something is causing ships to be destroyed without warning and sink with no time for escape. When a dying seaman finally washes up on an inhabited island, Martin flies there for the story with Tomo Iwanaga, a representative of the Japanese security forces , and learns of the island inhabitants' belief in a monster god which lives beneath the sea, which they believe is causing the disasters . Martin phones his editor at United World News, George Lawrence  and is given permission to stay and cover the story. Martin's involvement in the unfolding events broadens when paleontologist Dr. Yamane , is consulted and, returning to the island with his daughter Emiko  and her young naval-officer boyfriend Ogata  to investigate, sees the monster when it attacks the island village. Returning to Tokyo with clear evidence of the monster's existence and power, Yamane becomes a leading consultant to Japan in mounting a defense, as it becomes apparent the monster is going to attack Tokyo. The Japanese navy is unable to faze the monster with depth charges. In the dark of night, the monster attacks Tokyo, and it proves invulnerable to conventional military weaponry no matter how concentrated. Martin is one of millions injured in the attack, and here the flashback ends: Godzilla  has returned to the sea, but it is certain this is only for the moment. Emiko reveals she may know a solution to the monster's apparent indestructibility. She loves the young naval officer, but had until recently been engaged to a young scientist Dr. Serizawa , who was also Steve Martin's friend in college. She has lost interest in him because he has become almost a recluse, to her and others. After her breaking up with him, he revealed to her the reason for his reclusiveness — over the course of his research, he had accidentally developed a formula capable of destroying all oxygen in water, in the process of which any animal coming in contact with the "oxygen destroyer" is stripped clean of all flesh and organs, reduced to a skeleton. His anguish over what to do with this discovery has become a constant preoccupation. She had agreed to keep her knowledge of this a secret. But with Godzilla loose, she realizes this may be the only thing capable of stopping the monster, and informs her boyfriend and father. The scientist is only reluctantly persuaded to use his remaining sample of the oxygen destroyer to try to kill Godzilla, provided he accompanies the young officer, in a diving suit, to the sea bottom to place and release the formula more or less at the monster's feet. After concluding this agreement, the scientist destroys all his notes and papers on the formula. Emiko, upon seeing this, breaks down in tears, as she realizes that Serizawa is sacrificing his life's work to stop Godzilla. Once on the bottom of the sea, he sends the young officer back up to the boat, releases the destroyer, and cuts his own oxygen hose and lifeline, to ensure no one else will ever know the chemical composition of his horrid formula. The young officer joins Dr. Yamane, Emiko and Steve Martin on the ship to watch as the oxygen destroyer does its work, reducing Godzilla to a skeleton. Afterwards, Martin's last words were, "The menace was gone, so was a great man. But the whole world could wake up and live again."A San Francisco delivery man, Eddie Miller, struggles with his hatred of women. He's especially bothered by seeing women with their lovers. Miller knows he's sick, and out of despair, he self-inflicts burns on his right hand by holding it over a stove. The doctor treating the wound in an emergency room suspects he might need psychological help, but then gets too busy to follow through. Miller begins a killing spree as a sniper by shooting women from far distances. In an attempt to get caught, he writes an anonymous letter to the police begging them to stop him. As the killings continue, a psychologist has the keys  to finding the killer. The film is unusual in that its ending is completely non-violent, despite its genre and expectations raised throughout.Three decorated Navy pilots finagle a four-day leave in San Francisco. They land a posh suite at a hotel where Commander Andy Crewson , a master of procurement, arranges to populate it with wine, women and song.http://www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title/80435/Kiss-Them-for-Me/ Blonde bombshell Alice Kratzner  is one of these women, lured to the suite under the false pretense that Crewson has a stash of nylon stockings. Once there, she is naturally attracted to Crewson, but later turns her attention to Lieutenant McCann , a married man who also is in the process of running for a Congressional seat back home in Connecticut. If he is elected, McCann can leave the Navy immediately and return to civilian life. Lieutenant Wallace  tries to get the three pilots, including "Mississip,"  to make morale-raising speeches at the plants of shipyard magnate Eddie Turnbill , so that Turnbill will vouch for the men with the Navy and also to grease a popular job for himself upon leaving the service. Crewson and his cohorts, however, are physically and mentally exhausted from the war and simply want to enjoy a few days away from it. Suffering from combat stress and confronted with a number of reminders of the horrors of war, Crewson tries to amuse himself by making a play for Turnbill's attractive fiancée, Gwinneth Livingston . She resists his advances at first, but ultimately throws her engagement ring in Turnbill's face. Crewson declares his love for her shortly before he and his mates board a plane leaving San Francisco to return to duty.Eloise Y. "Honey Bear" Kelly  arrives at a remote African outpost, looking for a rich maharajah acquaintance, only to find he has canceled his trip owing to unrest in his realm. While waiting for the next river boat out, she spars with hardworking big game hunter Victor Marswell , who  pegs her as a certain disreputable type. When the river boat returns, it brings Donald Nordley  and his wife Linda . The Nordleys wish to go on safari to film gorillas. Marswell declines to guide them. Kelly rejoins the group after the steamer runs aground. Tensions run high between the two women when Linda is also attracted to Marswell. Marswell agrees to take the Nordleys into gorilla country, taking Kelly halfway to join the District Commissioner, who can then escort her back to civilization. However, they find the commissioner badly wounded by recently belligerent natives. With reinforcements days away, the small party narrowly escapes, taking the mortally wounded commissioner with them. Meanwhile, a serious romance is developing between Marswell and Linda. Only Donald is blind to the situation. Marswell tries to warn the husband, but then a bull gorilla charges, forcing him to shoot the beast, cutting off his confession. Marswell becomes depressed and begins drinking heavily in his tent. Kelly joins him, and one thing leads to another. When Linda appears, she finds them cuddling. Marswell's dismissive remarks about her infatuation with "the White Hunter" enrage her; she shoots him with his own pistol, wounding him in the arm. Kelly lies to the others, telling them that Marswell had been making advances to Linda for some time, finally forcing her to shoot him in his drunken state. The next day, the party breaks camp, leaving Marswell behind to try to capture some young gorillas to pay for the safari. Marswell, acknowledging to himself his feelings for Kelly, proposes to her, but she rebuffs him. As a canoe takes her downriver, she suddenly jumps into the water and makes her way back to him. The two embrace.The Stooges are detectives who have nearly mastered the game of Gin Rummy. Their police chief B. A. Copper  has just about had it with their goofing off, and demands that they find the murderer of Slug McGurk within 24 hours. Right from the start, the trio have Chopper , a prisoner who attempts to confess to the crime. Unfortunately, his sesquipedalian confession  confuses the simple-minded Stooges, who insist he is avoiding the question. Frustrated, the Stooges throw Chopper back in a jail cell. The next man they bring up is a witness, an organ grinder with a monkey named Antonio Zucchini Salami Gorgonzola dePizza . The witness begins to download his information to the Stooges, but his Italian looks do not match the English cockney accent that comes out of his mouth. Next, Shemp takes a call regarding a dismissed bootlegging charge, stating "The D.A. says we can't make a case out of 11 bottles" . Just when all seems lost Larry returns with Chopper who says he wants to confess to the murder. However, while taking down his confession, the real killer finally shows up . Upset that Chopper is going to take the credit of the murder away from him, he pulls out a gun and starts shooting everything in site. The Stooges take cover, and are trapped in their office until dePizza's monkey drops several bowling balls on the killer's head, knocking him cold. Unfortunately, Shemp was shot several times by the killer. While Moe gives Shemp a drink to help with the pain, he tells Larry to call an ambulance for Shemp, who replies "No, get a plumber." and suddenly starts leaking water from the bullet holes. Moe and Larry then shrug and decide to take a shower instead.The evil alien Ro-Man Extension XJ-2  has destroyed all human life on Earth, except for eight humans, using the "Calcinator Death Ray". The survivors include an elderly scientist, his wife, two daughters and son, his young assistant and two pilots taking a spacecraft to an orbiting space platform. All eight have developed an immunity to the death ray since receiving an experimental antibiotic serum developed by the scientist. Ro-Man must complete the destruction of all humans, even if it means physically killing them one by one, before his mission to subjugate the Earth is complete. After fruitless negotiations, he destroys the rocket ship headed for the orbiting platform with a laser. He later strangles the youngest daughter, Carla, off-screen and tosses the assistant scientist Roy over a cliff. His mission is waylaid, though, after he develops illogical attraction for Alice, the eldest daughter. He refuses to eliminate her, forcing the alien leader, "The Great Guidance", to personally finish the genocide by killing Ro-Man right after he kills Johnny, the young son. He then releases prehistoric dinosaurs and a massive earthquake, rendering the scientist, his wife and Alice as the only humans left. Ultimately the youngest family member, the son, wakes up after suffering a mild concussion, revealing that the film had presumably all been a dream. However, The Great Guidance is then seen coming out of a cave .After a rumble between New York City street gangs, the Hornets and Dukes, a youth is taken captive and threatened with a zip gun by Lenny Daniels, one of the Hornets. The act is witnessed by a neighbor, McAllister, who tells the cops. Lenny is arrested and sentenced to a year in jail. Hornets leader Frankie Dane decides to get even. Incorrigible, the 18-year-old Frankie resists all efforts to get through to him by social worker Ben Wagner or his worried mother, who was abandoned by Frankie's father. McAllister isn't afraid of Frankie and even slaps him. An angry Frankie informs his friends Lou Macklin and Angelo "Baby" Gioia that he intends to kill McAllister now, which frightens Frankie's 10-year-old brother Richie, who overhears. Baby's dad slaps him and orders him to stop hanging out with the no-good Frankie. An effort is made by Wagner to understand the boys rather than be angry with them, and Richie tells him of Frankie's plans to commit murder. McAllister is trapped in an alley at 1:30 in the morning. Richie tries to stop his brother and ends up with a knife held to his throat, but Frankie finally comes to his senses and is accompanied by Wagner to the police.Construction worker Vince Everett  accidentally kills a drunk and belligerent man in a barroom brawl. He is sentenced to one to ten years in the state penitentiary for manslaughter. His new cellmate, washed-up country and western singer Hunk Houghton , after hearing Vince sing and strum his guitar, starts teaching him. Hunk convinces Vince to participate in an upcoming inmate show which is broadcast on nationwide television. Vince gets numerous fan letters as a result, but Hunk sees to it they are not delivered. Hunk then convinces a reluctant Vince to sign a contract to become equal partners in his act.  Upon his release 20 months later, Vince is finally given his fan mail by the warden. Hunk promises Vince a singing job at a nightclub owned by a friend. At the club, Vince meets Peggy Van Alden , a promoter for singing star Mickey Alba. Vince is surprised when the club owner  refuses to let him sing and instead offers him a job as a busboy. Determined to prove the skeptic wrong, Vince goes on stage when the house band takes a break. He starts to sing "Young and Beautiful", but, enraged by a customer who is paying no attention and laughing about something else, smashes his guitar and storms out of the club. Peggy follows Vince out and convinces him to record a demo so that he can listen to himself. Vince does not like what he hears, but Peggy helps him improve. Vince then makes a recording of "Don't Leave Me Now", which Peggy takes to Geneva Records. The manager is unimpressed, but agrees to play the tape for his boss in New York. The next day, Peggy informs Vince that the song has been sold. She then takes Vince to a party at her parents' home, but Vince offends a guest he mistakenly believes is belittling him and leaves. When an angry and offended Peggy confronts him, Vince steals two kisses. When they go to buy Vince's hit single, however, Vince and Peggy are shocked to discover that the recording is Mickey Alba's. Vince storms into the Geneva Records office and slaps the manager. To avoid having his work stolen again, Vince suggests that he and Peggy form their own record company, which they name Laurel Records, and hire attorney Mr. Shores ([[Vaughn Taylor . For his first project with his new label, Vince records "Treat Me Nice", and begins pitching it. Rejected by everyone, Peggy finally convinces friend and disc jockey Teddy Talbot ([[Dean Jones  to air the song. It becomes an immediate hit. Later that evening, Vince kisses Peggy and asks her out to celebrate, but is disappointed when he finds out that she has already accepted a dinner date with Teddy. Vince later gets the chance to appear again on television. During a party, he introduces Peggy to Laury Jackson , a singer Vince has signed to the label. A little later, Hunk arrives, having been paroled, and persuades a reluctant Vince to give him a spot on the upcoming TV show. Vince rehearses "Jailhouse Rock" in a stylized "cell block" with other "inmates". Hunk's number is cut because his style of music has become outdated. Afterward, Vince points out that according to his lawyer, the contract Hunk had him sign in prison is worthless, but Vince offers him ten percent—not fifty—which Hunk accepts.  Within a few months, Vince is a star, but Peggy is no longer on speaking terms with him, as he has let his success go to his head. Vince then signs a movie deal with Climax Studios. The studio head asks him to spend the day with his new leading lady, Sherry Wilson , for publicity purposes. The actress is less than thrilled with her co-star at first, but eventually falls for him. Meanwhile, Hunk grows increasingly tired of Vince and his self-centered attitude. When Peggy shows up unexpectedly, Vince is happy to see her at first, but becomes upset when she says she came only to talk about business. Mr. Shores then approaches him with an extravagant offer from Geneva Records to purchase Laurel Records and sign him to a rich contract. Peggy refuses to sell, but Vince announces that he is going ahead with the deal since he owns controlling interest, which upsets her. Finally pushed too far by Vince's treatment of Peggy, Hunk repeatedly punches the star, even though Vince refuses to fight back. Hunk finally hits Vince in the throat, endangering his singing ability. Vince is rushed to a hospital. Vince forgives the contrite Hunk, and realizes he loves Peggy and she loves him. Though his doctor declares that his vocal cords are fully recovered, Vince is worried that his singing voice might have been affected, but a rendition of "Young and Beautiful" to Peggy reassures him.A group of agents of the U.S. Office of Strategic Services  is sent to German-occupied Italy during World War II to knock out the German-held Italian railroad system. In accomplishing this mission, most of them are killed because of an inside betrayal. After the war, one of the survivors, Captain Webster Carey , resolves to find the traitor. Captain Carey returns to Orta, near Milan, to find out who betrayed his World War II O.S.S. team and caused the deaths of several villagers. Much to his surprise, his old love Giulia , whom he thought dead at the hands of the Nazis, is alive and married to a powerful Italian nobleman, Barone Rocco de Graffi . The villagers are unfriendly, but Carey persists in his clandestine efforts to flush out the traitor.Jesse James  and his friends - brother Frank , brothers Cole  and Jim Younger , plus Kit Dalton  - arrive in Lawrence, Kansas, and are falsely accused of being members of Quantrill's Raiders. They are about to be lynched but are saved by the intervention of a Union officer. The men are released and they go on and join Quantrill . Jesse at first admires Quantrill but comes to question his devotion after seeing atrocities committed by the man and his troops. He also falls for Kate Clarke . The raiders take part in the Lawrence Massacre in which Jesse and his men rob their first bank. Most of the raiders abandon Quantrill except for Jesse. Quantrill is blinded then killed in a shoot out with Union troops. Jesse leaves Kate and heads off with his friends to a in bank robbing.{| class"50%" |- bgcolor="#CCCCCC" ! Actor !! Role |- | Sivaji Ganesan || |- | B. Saroja Devi || |- | M. R. Radha || |- | M. N. Nambiar || |- | T. S. Balaiah || |- | S. V. Subbaiah || |- | M. V. Rajamma || |- | C. K. Saraswathi || |}Wanted by the law for a murder in a bar, Brett Murphy, a war veteran, has fled the country to Spain, where he has been living for two years and is engaged to wed Jean Gurney, a former showgirl. FBI Agent Stafford arrives in Spain to arrest Brett and bring him back to the U.S. On their commercial flight to New York, the passengers include Jean, who bought a ticket at the last minute, and Lord Leverett, a man deranged by his daughter's death. Leverett brings aboard a chemical poison hidden in his bag. The handcuffed Brett is given a few minutes by Stafford to explain to Jean about his past life. His story is that two men killed a bartender, knocked him out and placed the gun in his hand. Certain he'd never get a fair trial, Brett ran away. A minister on board marries Brett to Jean with the agent's permission. Brett steals a pistol from a partner of Stafford's who is asleep. He tells Jean he intends to hijack the plane to Canada to avoid going to jail. The poison leaks from Leverett's case, emitting toxic fumes that cause a fire in the cabin and kill the pilots and navigator. Former combat pilot Brett is asked to fly the plane. He must make an emergency landing on water and without a radio, which Leverett has damaged. Brett ends up shooting Leverett, whereupon a grateful Stafford still insists on being given the gun. Brett takes pity on the dying passengers and lands the jet. Authorities on the ground inform Stafford that another man is being charged with the bar murder and Brett will be cleared.Police chief Joe Conroy  is relieved of his police duties after he accuses a "respected community man" Al Willis  of murdering a group of police officers. Despite his lack of authority, Conroy puts so much heat on Willis that the latter, making the excuse to his wife Helen  that he needs time to clear his head, skips town for Border City, where he's living a double life as a hoodlum with bar-singer mistress Marianna , whom he treats abusively. Conroy tails Willis to Border City in Mexico, where he recruits Marianna to his scheme to bring Willis to justice. A climactic cat-and-mouse game ends in a rooftop shootout.Sach obtains the ability to smell diamonds after he starts taking medication for a sinus infection. He and the boys go off to Africa in search of wealth, with Grimshaw as their guide. A gang of thieves comes along and tries to steal any diamonds that they may find. They capture the boys and insist they help the thieves find diamonds. They boys are unwilling to help so they try to get Sach to catch a cold so he cannot smell any diamonds. Unfortunately the thieves enlist a witch doctor to cure Sach. A native girl, Annatta, who only wants a "kiss, kiss, kiss" from Sach, comes along and rescues them.Father Tomasino is stabbed to death. San Francisco traffic cop Joe Martini felt the priest was like an actual father to him. He asks to assist homicide Lieutenant Kilrain in his investigation, but after being rejected, Joe quits the force. He has a hunch restaurant owner Sylvio Malatesta could be involved. Joe is warmly welcomed by Sylvio's family, however, and falls in love with a cousin, Anna. He hides his past identity as a cop from her. Something is troubling Sylvio, but the family believes he still misses a sweetheart killed in Italy during the war. Sylvio also has a alibi for the night of the priest's murder, but Sergeant Gillen gets word to Joe that the alibi is a fake. In a ploy to encourage Sylvio to confide in him, Joe pretends to be a murder suspect himself. Sylvio breaks down and admits to having killed his own sweetheart, then the priest as well after confiding to him about the murder in confession. Sylvio runs into the street and is struck by a moving vehicle. Dying, he begs for Joe's forgiveness.Captain Jeff Eliot returns to Germany in 1947 to visit the family who rescued him and hid him from the Nazis after his plane was shot down over Munich in World War II. He learns that most of the family was killed by a U.S. Air Force air raid. The only survivor is the daughter, Wilhelmina Lehrt, who is working as a bar maid in a nightclub and hates Americans. Eliot nonetheless manages to romance Wilhelmina, and in his time at the nightclub, he develops a friendship with Heisemann, a comic. Heisemann, it turns out, has secret ties to an underground Nazi revivalist movement. When Eliot discovers this, he tells his superiors, who order him to continue his relationship with Wilhemina and try to learn more about Heisemann's operation. The chase scene at the end of the picture, ends in Berchtesgaden, and the scenes of Heisemann being chased, were filmed right inside the ruins of Hitler's house. Heisemann in the end is standing on the frame of the huge picture window of the house.Tough and ruthless Police Inspector Javert  recaptures a small time criminal Kandhan  who has escaped from prison. Kandhan turns a new leaf with the help of a Christian Bishop . When he is released from prison he starts a glass making company. He changes his identity and becomes successful. He becomes the mayor of his town. Inspector Javert finds out about his new life and threatens to expose him. One one occasion Kandhan saves Javert's life. Javert commits suicide unable to turn Kandhan in to the authorities out of his sense of gratitude.Brandon deWilde leads a cast lengthy in character actors playing subdued Biarn Turner, a 15-year-old runaway from the Eatondale Orphan Asylum bound for Florida in the pre-World War I time period. He receives a ride into the rural Missouri town of Delphi with rich land-owner Tobias Brown . There, after an episode in the town square involving most of the populace, he meets crusty newspaper man Doyle Magee . Both of these men share an interest in the polite and mature youth; one showing kindness, the other almost outright cruelty. Eventually, both of their reasonings become clear to the lad. At the same time, the whole town of Delphi comes to not only accept Biarn, but to embrace him as one of the town's own and his dream of becoming a farmer. Highlights include a turn of the 19th to 20th century small-town 4th of July celebration with a horse-trotting race and a head-to-head between Magee and Brown.After moving from South America to the Scottish Highlands, millionaire Sanin Cejador y Mengues  reassumes the title of laird of Glen Easan, which he inherited from his grandfather, Sandy Menzies. Obstinate in nature, Mengues soon finds the climate inhospitable, and the language and customs of the Highland people exasperating. While fishing on the loch with his equally stubborn, distantly related cousin Angus, who works as a fishing or hunting guide for the estate, Mengues hooks and then loses a large trout, and the confrontation escalates from Gaelic epithets and an overturned boat to Mengues firing Angus. When the locals then refuse to work for him and his cattle roam unmanaged over the glen, Mengues, advised by Oliver Dukes , his factor from Glasgow whom the villagers distrust, closes a heavily used road that leads through his property. By the time American widower, Major Jim "Lance" Lansing , a former Air Force pilot who was stationed in Scotland during World War II, returns there, the disgruntled villagers are burning the laird in effigy. After a quick drink at the pub, where he befriends tinker and former paratrooper Malcolm MacFie , Lance reunites with his old friends the Carnochs, who act as guardians of Lance's young daughter Alsuin , who adores Lance but is unaware that he is her father. Stricken with polio, the bedridden Alsuin is hard-hit by the closing of the road, which inspires her made-up fairy tales and provides people to call to her as they pass. At her request, Lance, whom Alsuin calls "Sir Lancelot", proceeds to the Mengues estate to talk to the laird about the road. Finding the gate locked, he climbs the fence, but before approaching the castle, detours to the loch and takes a swim. Mengues' feisty daughter Marissa  spots him trespassing and steals his trousers while he is in the loch. Later, dressed in the clothes he has left, Lance shows up at the castle and manages to meet Mengues, who will only advise him, as a fellow foreigner, to "leave Scotland." Lansing, however, rallies the people of the glen and eventually, they prevail upon Mengues to restore peace, but not before a brief and unconvincing fistfight between Lansing and Dukes. Mengues apologizes to all by explaining that he has recently learned the difference between a lord and a laird. A lord, he says, takes care of the people and land belonging to him, while a laird belongs to the land and the people. With peace restored, the road re-opens, and during the wedding festivities of Lance and Marissa, Mengues, dressed in a kilt, promises Alsuin, who knows now that Lance is her father, that they both will be dancing within six months. Tinker chieftain Parlan  and Malcolm enjoy the party from the window, until they realize it is an excellent night for poaching.The Titanic was the largest vessel afloat, and was widely believed to be unsinkable. Her passengers included the cream of American and British society. The story of her sinking is told from the point of view of her passengers and crew, principally Second Officer Charles Lightoller . Once in the open sea on her maiden voyage, the Titanic receives a number of ice warnings from nearby steamers. Captain Edward J. Smith  is unconcerned and the ship continues on at high speed. Late on 14 April 1912, lookout Frederick Fleet ([[Bernard Fox  spots an iceberg directly in front of the ship. The ship turns hard to port, but the Titanic collides with the iceberg on its starboard side, opening the first five compartments to the sea, below the waterline. Thomas Andrews , the ship's builder, inspects the damage and finds that the ship will soon sink, a bad situation made horrific by the fact the ship does not have sufficient lifeboat capacity for everyone on board. A distress signal is immediately sent out, and efforts begin to signal a ship  that is seen on the horizon, a mere 10&nbsp;miles away. But the ship's radio operator is off duty and he does not hear the distress signal. Fortunately, the radio operator on the {{RMS}} receives the distress call, understands the emergency and immediately alerts Captain Arthur Rostron  who promptly orders the ship to head to the Titanic at maximum speed. Captain Smith orders his officers Lightoller and William Murdoch to start lowering the lifeboats. Many women and children are reluctant to get in a small, cramped lifeboat, and Murdoch and Lightoller must use force to put them in. Many men try to sneak into the lifeboats, but Lightoller will not allow them. Murdoch, working the other side of the ship, is shown as more accommodating to men. As the stewards struggle to hold back women and children holding third-class tickets , most of the women and children from second and first class climb into the lifeboats and launch away from the ship. The bow of the ship is swiftly taking in a lot of water and there are only two collapsible lifeboats left. Lightoller and other able seamen struggle to untie them and, unable to take the time to put passengers into the boats, leave them in the hope that the boats will save more lives. The {{RMS}} is four hours away and is racing to the site, in hope of saving more lives. The ship sinks amid much chaos on the decks, with third class passengers allowed up from below after the boats are gone. Lightoller and many others swim off the ship. The ship sinks deeper into the water; suddenly a funnel breaks loose and crashes into the water and the ship goes down. One of the overturned collapsibles is floating, so Lightoller and a few more men balance on the boat and wait. Chief Baker Charles Joughin is found in the water, not minding the cold because he's been drinking, and pulled up on the boat. Lightoller spots another lifeboat and the men are saved. The Carpathia comes and rescues the survivors. As the film ends, Lightoller, the senior surviving officer, reflects that they were all so sure about the safety of the ship, and that he will "never be sure again, about anything."Reformed outlaw Link Jones , travels to Crosscut, Texas to catch a train to Fort Worth, where he intends to use the savings of his community of Good Hope to hire a schoolteacher. On the train platform, Sam Beasley  speaks with Link briefly, rousing the suspicions of the town marshal, Sam being a known con man. When the marshal comments that Link looks familiar, Link gives him a false name. Aboard the train, Sam impulsively joins Link, learns of his mission in Fort Worth and claims he can be of help. Sam introduces him to the Crosscut saloon singer, Billie Ellis , insisting she could make an ideal teacher. Their conversation is overheard by Alcutt, a shady-looking passenger. When the train stops to pick up wood for additional fuel, male passengers help load the train but Alcutt remains on board, feigning sleep. He signals three other men, Coaley Tobin , Trout  and Ponch , who then try to rob the train. Link tries to intervene and is knocked unconscious. The holdup is prevented by a guard who orders the train to pull away. Alcutt does, however, take Link's bag containing Good Hope's money. He is wounded as the robbers flee. Link revives to discover that he, Sam and Billie have been left behind, many miles from the nearest town. Link leads them on foot to a ramshackle farm, admitting that he lived there years earlier. While the others wait in the barn, Link enters the run-down house and finds the train robbers hiding inside. Coaley is suspicious of Link's claim that he and the others simply want to rest for the night. The men are interrupted by the appearance of aging outlaw Dock Tobin , who is startled to see Link, his nephew, whom he raised as a killer and thief and who abandoned him more than a dozen years earlier to go straight. Tobin laments that nothing has been the same since Link's departure and introduces him to the roughnecks he now commands, including Link's own cousin, Coaley. Disturbed by the revelation of Link's true identity, Coaley demonstrates his toughness by killing Alcutt, who is near death from his wound. Realizing the danger of his situation, Link brings in Sam and Billie from the barn and lies to Tobin, telling him that he intentionally sought out his uncle after being left by the train. Tobin reveals his long-held ambition to rob the bank in the town of Lassoo and asserts that Link's return to the gang makes that possible. Link agrees to participate in the holdup to protect Billie. After declaring that she is his woman, Link has a knife held to his throat while Coaley drunkenly insists that she strip. Tobin waits until she is nearly undressed before he laughingly sends Link and Billie to sleep in the barn. Claude Tobin , another cousin, arrives and is displeased at finding Link there. Dock rejects the suggestion of Claude and Coaley to kill Link and the others. They depart on the four-day ride to Lassoo. Link goads the brutal Coaley into a fistfight and beats him severely, then forcibly strips him of his clothes, as revenge for what Coaley did to Billie. Deeply humiliated, Coaley attempts to shoot Link, but Sam intercedes and is killed instead. Tobin then shoots Coaley for disobeying him. Billie laments that she has finally found a man worth loving, but can never have him. Link has a wife and children in Good Hope. With the town Lassoo in sight, Link volunteers for the holdup job. Tobin insists that he be accompanied by the mute Trout. Lassoo is a ghost town, its bank deserted except for a frightened old Mexican woman, whom Trout shoots in a panic. Link proceeds to kill Trout. He then awaits the arrival of Claude and Ponch. In a drawn-out gun battle, Link kills Ponch first, then eventually and with some regret, Claude. Returning to camp, Link discovers to his horror that Billie has been raped and beaten. He goes in search of Dock Tobin, who is on a cliff nearby. Link calls out to Tobin that he, like Lassoo, is a ghost and finished. He shoots Tobin and reclaims the bag of Good Hope's money. Riding back to civilization, Billie declares that she will resume her singing career, knowing that Link intends to return to his home and family.Commercial artist James Vanning  and his friend, Dr. Edward Gurston , are on a hunting and fishing trip in Wyoming. They stop to help two men whose car has crashed. John  and Red  are bank robbers, fleeing with $350,000 in loot, who don't plan on leaving any witnesses. They murder Gurston using Vanning's hunting rifle, but through luck Vanning survives. He's knocked out cold but is still alive. He awakens to discover the stolen money, left behind by mistake, and runs with it from the returning hoods. He gets away but loses the bag in the blizzard. Much later, at a cafe in Los Angeles, Vanning makes the acquaintance of Marie Gardner , a model. He is ambushed by John and Red, but once again gets away. Marie falls for Vanning and travels by bus with him to Wyoming, tailed by an insurance investigator named Fraser ([[James Gregory  who has been following the case all along. John and Red have found the money and get the drop on the other three. The crooks double-cross one another, however, and one is shot dead. Vanning fights with the other, who is killed by a snow plow. The insurance man will clear Vanning, who is now free to marry Marie.The Stooges are secret agents working undercover at the home of Professor Sneed  and his daughter . Sneed is developing a rocket fuel in secret for the government. Captain Rork  watches the professor through his front window, with hopes of kidnapping him. Of course, Rork and his henchmen capture the Stooges instead, mistaking Larry for the professor. Trouble brews when the Stooges are required to whip up some the fuel, and then write down the formula. It does not take long for the kidnappers to capture the real Professor Sneed, along with his daughter, and throw them all in jail until the formula is disclosed. As Rork serves the Stooges their last meal, they steal the jail keys from him and use their fake fuel to break themselves, Professor Sneed and his daughter out of the jail and make a quick exit.An American bomber is shot down on the Norwegian coast during World War II. The airmen bail out and land at different locations. In spite of the German search for them, the Norwegian resistance picks them up and hides them in the attic of the local church, a center of operations. Things become tense, however, when the hideout is spotted by a notorious collaborator, and soon the protagonist, Hans , has to get the airmen to Sweden.Capt. Patterson  and his space crew (Dave Willock, Patrick Waltz, and [[Paul Birch  crash land on Venus and are captured. They learn the planet is under the dictatorship of cruel Queen Yllana , a masked woman who has banished men from the planet. In the palace, the astronauts are aided by a beautiful courtier named Talleah  and her friends . The women long for the love of men again and plot to overthrow the evil Queen. When Patterson has the opportunity to remove the Queen's mask, he discovers she has been horribly disfigured by radiation burns caused by men and their wars. In a fury, the Queen decides to destroy Earth and its warlike peoples but she dies in the attempt. The Venusians are free again to enjoy the love of men.Legendary adventurer Sinbad the Sailor  and his crew are lost on the ocean but accidentally find the island of Colossa. They land for provisions. There they encounters Sokurah the magician , fleeing from a giant cyclops. They are able to escape when Sokurah orders the genie of his magic lamp to create an invisible barrier. However, Sokurah drops the lamp when the cyclops throws a boulder into the sea, overturning their boat, though the men are able to swim to the ship. The cyclops retrieves the lamp from the water after the barrier disappears. On board the ship Sokurah tells Sinbad about how many ships crashed on the island and the cyclops collected all their treasure. He offers it to him if they turn back to get the lamp but Sinbad refuses. He and Princess Parisa , from the kingdom of Chandra, are on their way to Sinbad's native Baghdad to be married. Their union would cement ties between their two nations. The Caliph of Baghdad  allows Sokurah to provide entertainment on the night before the wedding. Later, Sokurah prophecises war between the two nations when asked to look into the future. The Caliph is angered by this; and refuses to provide a ship and crew to retrieve his lamp while threatening to have him blinded if he is not out of Bagdad before sunset. That night, the magician secretly shrinks Parisa to the size of a hand. When she is discovered her father threatens Bagdad with war. Sinbad is able to find Sokurah as he leaves the City. Sokurah claims he knows of a potion that can restore Parisa, but it requires a piece of the eggshell of a roc, a giant, two-headed bird that coincidentally nests on the peaks of Colossa. The Caliph has no choice but to provide a ship. Sinbad enlists his loyal men from the previous voyage, but they are not enough and Sinbad is forced to recruit inmates from the Caliph's prison. Before they reach the island of Colossa, the cutthroats mutiny and capture Sokurah, Sinbad, and his men. However, the sounds of screaming demons from an island south of Colossa madden the crew, and the ship is in danger of being dashed upon the rocks, after which sea-serpents will devour the sailors. One of the mutineers releases Sinbad so he can save the ship and the leader of the mutineers falls from the mast. On the island of Colossa, Sinbad, Sokurah and some of the sailors enter the valley of the Cyclops where they find the treasure but are attacked by the monster. Sokurah focuses on getting the magic lamp and ignores the pleas of his comrades. Sinbad manages to blind the cyclops and leads it off a cliff to its death. Still needing Sokurah to guide him, Sinbad takes possession of the lamp. Parisa enters the lamp where she finds the unhappy boy genie Barani . He shows her an inscription inside the lamp of how he can be freed and tells her the words to summon him in return for her promise to free him. The party reaches the nest of the two-headed roc, just before a giant hatchling emerges from its shell. Some of the men break open the egg and slay it as they feel hungry, which incites an attack by the infuriated parent. Meanwhile, Sokurah kills Sinbad's faithful lieutenant Harufa when he prevents him from getting the lamp. Sinbad manages to retrieve both a fragment of an eggshell and the lamp but is captured by the Roc which drops him unconscious in its nest. The magician then abducts the tiny Princess and takes her to his underground fortress. Sinbad recovers, is told by the Genie what happened, and climbs down into the valley of the Cyclops to the entrance of Sokura's cave. He slips past the chained guardian dragon. Upon finding the magician he agrees to restore Parisa to her normal size in return for the lamp. However, Sinbad then refuses to give him the lamp until they get back to the ship, so Sokura brings to life a skeleton swordsman to challenge him. Sinbad eventually defeats it and he and the Princess flee. As they cross over a river of molten lava Sokurah causes part of the bridge to break off. The Princess summons the Genie who gives the two a rope to swing over. Parisa recalls part of the prophecy the genie told her about. She throws the lamp into the lava to free the genie from his captivity. When the two leave the cave, they encounter another cyclops. Sinbad releases the dragon who engages the cyclops in a fight to the death as Sinbad and Parisa make good their escape back to the shore. Sokurah orders the victorious dragon to follow and kill them. However, Sinbad's men have time to organize a giant crossbow ballista and fire at the dragon. Sokurah is accidentally crushed by the fatally wounded monster while Sinbad, Parisa, and the other survivors depart. They are joined by the genie, Sinbad's new cabin boy, who has placed the treasure of the Cyclops in Sinbad's cabin as a wedding gift.King Arthur is sitting with his Knights of the Round Table, complaining about hard times that have befallen the kingdom ever since the Black Knight stole the Singing Sword. He asks his knights - among them Sir Osis of Liver and Sir Loin of Beef - for a volunteer to get the sword back. The knights complain that the Black Knight is 'invincible' and has a fire-breathing dragon guarding the sword. King Arthur angrily demands to know if the knights are all chicken, and is dismayed when he hears clucking and sees chicken feathers flying. Bugs, as the court jester, dances in and tells King Arthur that "only a fool" would be crazy enough to go after the Singing Sword. The King agrees  - he tells Bugs that he has to get the singing sword, or else face being executed ("[[Rack . Bugs at first laughs at the idea, then starts crying. At the castle of the Black Knight - shown to be Yosemite Sam dressed in black armor - there is a fire-breathing dragon, but the dragon has a cold and is prone to fits of sneezing, causing jets of flame to shoot from its nostrils. Sam feeds the dragon some coal to feed the dragon's internal fire, then goes back to taking a nap on his chair. Bugs sneaks in to the castle, past Sam and the dragon, and to the chest, where he pulls out the singing sword. He openly wonders why the sword is called the "singing sword" - and finds out when the sword starts vibrating to the tune of "Cuddle up a Little Closer, Lovey Mine". Sam wakes up and chases Bugs, but Bugs slams the door in Sam's face, causing his armor to fall off. Sam then wakes up the dragon , who breathes fire on him . Bugs runs outside the castle, chased by Sam on the dragon. Bugs ducks into a hole, and Sam slides off the dragon when trying to stop. Bugs then runs back to the castle and raises the drawbridge as Sam approaches, causing Sam to fall into the moat. When Sam demands that Bugs lowers the drawbridge, Bugs lowers it right onto Sam's head, who, in a muffled voice, yells to raise it back up again. A flat Sam yells: "OK, rabbit! You've forced me to use force!" Sam then uses the dragon to pull a catapult in place, gets on it and launches himself to the castle - but misses the window Bugs is looking out of, flattening himself on his front . Sam next lassos a rope around one of the battlements of the castle, but as he is climbing up, Bugs whacks a mallet on Sam's helmet, causing Sam to side down the rope outside of his armor. Thinking the coast is clear, Bugs sneaks out of the castle. Sam and his dragon are hidden behind a rock waiting for Bugs, but the dragon sneezes on Sam again, alerting Bugs to their presence. Bugs then runs back into the castle, followed by Sam and the dragon. Bugs runs into a room, Sam and the dragon follow, then Bugs sneaks out and locks the door to what is now shown as the explosives room. Surrounded by high explosives, Sam tries to keep the dragon from sneezing again: . As Bugs walks away from the castle, the dragon sneezes again, and the tower Sam and the dragon are in takes off like a rocket, flying towards the moon . Bugs waves goodbye, saying: "Farewell to thee". The singing sword picks up on this, and starts humming "Farewell To Thee" as Bugs walks out of sight and the cartoon fades out.The movie opens with a raging desert battle between the cities of Basra and Baghdad, during which Harun's  Basran father is fatally wounded. Before he dies, he gives his son a medallion he has pulled from his killer's neck, and urges him to somehow end the senseless killings. Harun rides to Bagdad, where he meets the beautiful Khairuzan , who tries to sell clothes to shopkeeper Barcus . He bargains with Barcus that for 10 dinars, he can pick any item in the shop. Under a pile of rags, he finds a golden sword that seems to somehow call him. Khairuzan ignites a riot when she defends the citizens of Basra. Barcus watches in awe as Harun cuts solid metal in half with his golden sword. As soon as soldiers appear and spirit Khairuzan away, the fighting stops, and Harun finds a medallion on the ground identical to the one his father gave him. Barcus discovers that the sword will cut through iron only when Harun wields it. He warns Harun to be careful until they can translate the inscriptions on its blade and discover all its powers. Meanwhile, in the palace, sinister Vizier Jafar  urges Badgad's Caliph to fight Basra, but the Caliph refuses. Khairuzan, who is in fact the princess, is soon brought in by her guard, Jafar's dim-witted son Hadi . Jafar convinces the Caliph that Khairuzan's headstrong ways may be tamed by marriage to his son, then later plots with Hadi to undermine the Caliph by inciting more battles against Basra. When Khairuzan learns of the arranged marriage, she escapes again and disguises herself as a boy. Harun is waiting outside for an audience with Jafar, and when the guards spot Khairuzan, she steals Harun's horse. She is finally caught by both Hadi and Harun, who begin a fight which Harun wins. He discovers that he is actually invincible while wielding the golden sword.  Khairuzan claims to be a boy slave and Harun brings her to the city, where she eavesdrops as Barcus reveals that the sword's first inscription promises that whoever unsheathes the sword will gain the throne. Later, Harun, realizing that Khairuzan is a girl, protects her when a guard questions them, and they are both thrown to the dungeon, where they fall in love and kiss. After a minor quarrel, Khairuzan makes herself known to the guards and moves back to her harem. Knowing of the sword's magical powers, she declares that only the winner of a tournament may claim her hand. She names Harun as her guard, and although he is infuriated to discover she is a princess and he her servant, he later watches admiringly as she is very kind to the poor townspeople. Meanwhile, Khairuzan's handmaiden, Bakhamra , informs Hadi about the magic sword, and he and his father steal it by creating a replica and then drugging Harun in order to switch the two. Khairuzan wakes Harun from his stupor and later asks him why he has not yet signed up for the tournament. When she disagrees with his response that he is not aristocratic enough to marry her, he kisses her. He then races to Barcus to proclaim his newfound joy, and refuses to listen when Barcus warns him that the second inscription counsels that the bearer's true reward will arrive in a grave of stone. At the tournament, Hadi tampers with Harun's saddle. Quickly, all but Hadi and Harun are eliminated from the contest, and Hadi finally wins by throwing Harun from his saddle. Harun realizes his sword was switched and suspects Khairuzan. He breaks into the palace and finds Bakhamra, who has just been jilted by Hadi and so reveals his scheme to Harun. Harun locates Hadi just as he is about to bring his unwilling bride to bed, and fights with him. He is captured by Hadi's guards and brought before Jafar. Bakhamra and the Caliph overhear the vizier plan to kill them and blame Harun. When the Caliph orders Jafar arrested, the vizier brings out his medallion, which is the same as the one Harun carries, and tries to kill the Caliph with the magic sword, but it slices into a stone pillar and remains stuck there. The guards kill the Caliph, but Harun and Khairuzan escape by fooling the guards into believing they have died. Jafar and Hadi soon discover that they cannot pull the sword out of the column and call men in from across Bagdad to attempt to pull it out. While Khairuzan gathers the townspeople around her, Harun and Barcus sneak back into the palace. Harun fights with the guards and is almost captured when Khairuzan rouses the people to storm the palace. He grabs the sword from the stone, causing it to collapse on top of Jafar and Hadi. Khairuzan bestows on Harun the title Al-Rhashid . Then they kiss.Although he is scheduled to wed his boss George Salt's niece that weekend, Amalgamated World Metals vice chairman Cliff Barton is sent to London to do a business deal that will enrich the firm. Salt considers him a protege and intends to turn over control of the company to Barton someday, insisting to him that business always comes first. Cliff must hide the fact from Mr. Carew, who runs the British company, that Salt intends to unscrupulously assume control of the company rather than simply merge with it. And while following through on Mrs. Salt's request to drop by her pet London-based charity, Cliff learns that it is actually a front for prostitutes run by a German refugee named Miriam Linka. Although his loyalties are with the company and future father-in-law, Cliff wants no part of betraying Carew's trust. He also, against all odds, falls in love with Miriam and persuades her to return to America with him to be married. Salt angrily tries to spin the guilt so that it appears Cliff was the one defrauding the British, while false accusations fly that Miriam is not only a prostitute but a Communist as well. Cliff must fight for his reputation and the woman he loves.Stormy Tornado and Curly Flagg are two showgirls from a San Francisco cabaret who witness the murder of one of their fellow performers and can identify the killer. Not wanting to get mixed up in a murder rap, the girls flee the scene and hide out at Bristol College, disguising themselves as boys. However the need for attention makes the girls want to stand out in their stage costumes and then the trouble begins.Sam Hurley  and Bart Moore ([[Paul Kelly  escape from prison, although Moore is seriously wounded in the breakout. They meet up with a confederate, a mute named "Dummy" , and hide out in a ghost town. Along the way, they pick up several hostages, Kay Garven  and her lover Arthur Ashton , reporter Larry Fleming , dancer "Dottie" Vale , and the town's sole resident, Asa Tremaine . Larry tries to warn the gangsters that the government is going to conduct an atomic bomb test nearby the next day, but Sam, their leader, does not believe him. When Arthur causes trouble, Sam kills him without a qualm. Meanwhile, Sam discovers that Kay's husband is a doctor. He phones Neal Garven ([[Richard Egan  and threatens to kill his unfaithful wife unless he meets them. To Kay's surprise, Neal still loves her enough to show up. He successfully operates on Bart, but warns Sam that moving his friend too soon will kill him. When Sam finally realizes that Larry was telling the truth, he still waits as long as possible to give Bart time to recuperate. Then, little more than an hour before the bomb is scheduled to go off, the gang prepares to leave in their car; a desperate, self-serving Kay barges into the vehicle. Larry overpowers Dummy, but the others drive away. Unbeknownst to everyone, the test has been moved forward an hour due to favorable weather conditions. When the five-minute warning sounds, the doomed criminals frantically try to speed away, realizing it is hopeless. Asa leads the others to a cave. After the detonation, the four emerge unharmed.In the early days of World War 2, Norman Pitkin, a roadmender with St Godric's Borough Council, falls foul of the soldiers in an army camp, when his handiwork slows down access to the camp. Despite the efforts of Borough Engineer, Mr Grimsdale, the army has both of them called up for army service. They find themselves in the Pioneer Corps, doing much the same sort of work. The two are posted to France, but mistakenly end up behind German lines. Grimsdale is captured by German soldiers and taken to local headquarters in a chateau. Meanwhile, Pitkin has wandered into the nearby town, but doesn't notice soldiers standing to attention and saluting him. It transpires that he's a double of the local commander, General Schreiber. In a cafe, he recognises the waitress as Lesley, an ATS officer he had briefly met in training camp. She is in fact an undercover agent working with the local resistance group, but Pitkin inadvertently blows her cover and she's arrested, along with the cafe owner. Pitkin and Henri, another resistance worker, break into the chateau, using a tunnel that Pitkin digs, but they too are captured. Pitkin comes face-to-face with Schreiber and finally realises his chance. To keep up the deception, he has a tryst with Gretchen, the general's mistress - a singer of Wagnerian proportions - and comically attempts to sing Schubert lieder with her. Pitkin/Schreiber manages to release the prisoners, who escape through the tunnel, but Pitkin is caught and sentenced to be shot at dawn. As the execution is about to be carried out, he escapes through the same tunnel and runs back to the Allied lines. At war's end, all have survived and peace returns to the Council offices. Grismdale is still Borough Engineer, but Pitkin is now the mayor.Joe E. Lewis , a successful Chicago night-club entertainer is invited to work for the Mob during the Prohibition era. His refusal results in his face being slashed and his throat cut, preventing him from continuing with his current act as a singer. Lewis soon develops an acerbic and witty sense of humor and is given a break as a stand-up comedian from singer Sophie Tucker . Soon, Lewis makes a career for himself, but a self-destructive streak leads him to question his way of living and what his life has become.Johnny Kelly  is a Chicago cop from a long line of police officers. He's grown tired of the job and his married life. He plans on leaving his wife for exotic dancer Sally "Angel Face" Connors . When Penrod Biddel ([[Edward Arnold , a corrupt, powerful attorney, wants him for a job, Johnny is tempted. He needs money in order to get quick money to escape Chicago and start life anew with "Angel Face." Kelly accepts an assignment to escort a low-life former magician ([[William Talman , now criminal across the border to Indiana. Not all is what it seems and the more Kelly learns the more he's determined to do right.USAF Major Lincoln Bond  was captured during the Korean War and subjected to torture, finally "cracking" after 14 months and signing a "confession" used for propaganda. Upon his release, he took a year to recover from the ordeal before showing up at the Flight Test Center at Edwards Air Force Base, hoping to return to work as a test pilot. His old buddy, Colonel McKee , tries his best for him, but the base commander, Brigadier General Banner , turns him down because he cannot trust him to be stable. A complication is that the general's secretary and love interest, Connie Mitchell , is an old flame. Bond presses for a job and accepts the general's offer of routine flying in support. Banner is a hands-on leader, taking the most dangerous assignments himself. When Bond flies the new Gilbert XF-120 fighter, he finds dangerous structural problems that threaten its imminent acceptance by the Air Force. However, nobody really believes his claim that he did not subject the fighter prototype to stresses beyond its design specifications, especially H. G. Gilbert , the head of the company that built the fighter. When the general tries to replicate Bond's maneuvers, nothing untoward happens. Afterward, Bond sees Banner nearly collapse in the locker room, but Banner shrugs off the incident. The two begin to trust each other, especially when Banner is endangered in a test flight, and Bond calmly and expertly comes to the rescue. Then Major Joe Craven , another close friend of Bond's, is killed when a wing of his XF-120 tears away, confirming Bond's warning. Bond's rehabilitation is endangered when a drunk Major "Bromo" Lee , Banner's top test pilot, tries to pick a fight with him at the officers club. Bond reacts badly to being held by a bystander, invoking memories of his Korean War imprisonment, and punches Bromo twice. With an appreciation that both men were to blame for the altercation, Banner gives Bond the assignment he craves: the rocket-powered X-2, which is designed to fly to the edge of outer space. The general insists, however, on piloting the first test flight at full power, despite strong pressure from his superior, Lieutenant General Bryan Shelby , to let a younger man take on the dangerous job. When Bond is assigned to fly the last half-power test before the main flight, he goes to full power without authorization and barely survives a high-altitude bailout when the aircraft goes out of control. The base flight surgeon tells Banner that only a young, fit person could have survived, leading the general to accept a promotion and transfer. He recommends Colonel McKee as his successor. Although Banner offers to take Connie with him to his new assignment, she decides to stay with her former love.The film tells of Christopher Kelvaney  a crooked police officer who is not timid to take bribes and payoffs from criminals and other nefarious folk. His brother Eddie  is a young member of the police force and is honest and uncorrupted. In a penny arcade, a drug dealer is stabbed to death by a man who claims the territory for himself, and Eddie witnesses a gangland murder. The murderer goes to Kelvaney and asks to buy his brother off. When Christopher Kelvaney realizes that his brother won't change his testimony he tells the mob to leave his brother alone. An out-of-town button-man is brought in to kill both brothers, but he succeeds only in killing Eddie. His conscience aroused, Kelvaney goes after the mob leaders himself.Soldiers Wagner, Paulun and Lick are three friends and the best sharpshooters in their division, that is stationed in Latvia, near the German-Soviet border. During June 1941, while on vacation, they walk near a river and spot a movement in the bush. Believing it to be a bird, they shoot in its direction and discover that they have killed Angelika, their captain's daughter. The three throw her corpse to a swamp and proceed as if nothing happened. Lick tells of the incident to his father, a Waffen-SS general, who decides to use the corpse for propaganda purposes: on 22 June, the day of the invasion to the Soviet Union, he exhumes Angelika's remains and claims she was killed by Soviet marauders. Her father orders to shoot Latvian civilians in response. Paulun tries to tell the truth, but Lick claims he is insane; Wagner remains silent. When Paulun tries to escape arrest, he is killed by Lick. Wagner does nothing and continues to behave as usual.After breaking his leg during a dangerous assignment, professional photographer L.B. "Jeff" Jeffries  is confined in his Greenwich Village apartment, using a wheelchair while he recuperates. His rear window looks out onto a small courtyard and several other apartments. During a summer heat wave, he passes the time by watching his neighbors, who keep their windows open to stay cool. The tenants he can see include a dancer he nicknames "Miss Torso", a lonely woman he nicknames "Miss Lonelyheart", a songwriter, several married couples, a middle-aged sculptor, and Lars Thorwald , a wholesale jewelry salesman with a bedridden wife. After Thorwald and his wife apparently have an argument, Thorwald makes repeated late-night trips carrying his sample case. Jeff notices that Thorwald's wife is gone and sees Thorwald cleaning a large knife and handsaw. Later, Thorwald ties a large packing crate with heavy rope and has moving men haul it away. Jeff discusses these observations with his wealthy socialite girlfriend Lisa Fremont  and his insurance company home-care nurse Stella , and becomes obsessed with their theory that Thorwald murdered his wife. He explains their theory to his friend Tom Doyle , a New York City Police detective, and asks him to find out whether anyone actually picks up the packing crate. Doyle looks into the situation but finds nothing suspicious, and discovers that "Mrs. Thorwald" picked up the packing crate. After Doyle leaves, Jeff asks Lisa if she thinks it was ethical for him to spy on his neighbor with binoculars and a telephoto lens; Lisa replies that she doesn't know much about "rear window ethics" but comments on their morbid curiosity by asking, "Whatever happened to that old saying, 'Love thy neighbor'?" Soon after, a neighbor's dog is found dead with its neck broken. When the owner sees the lifeless body of her dog she screams to the courtyard: "You don't know the meaning of the word 'neighbors'. Neighbors like each other, speak to each other, care if anybody lives or dies! But none of you do!" and cries in grief. During the woman's hysterics, the neighbors all rush to their windows to see what has happened, except for Thorwald, whose cigar can be seen glowing as he sits in his dark apartment. Convinced that Thorwald is guilty after all, Jeff has Lisa slip an accusatory note under Thorwald's door so Jeff can watch his reaction when he reads it. Then, as a pretext to get Thorwald away from his apartment, Jeff telephones him and arranges a meeting at a bar. He thinks Thorwald may have buried something in the courtyard flower patch and then killed the dog to keep it from digging it up. When Thorwald leaves, Lisa and Stella dig up the flowers but find nothing. Lisa then climbs the fire escape to Thorwald's apartment and squeezes in through an open window. When Thorwald returns and grabs Lisa, Jeff calls the police, who arrive in time to save her. With the police present, Jeff sees Lisa with her hands behind her back, wiggling her finger with Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring on it. Thorwald also sees this, realizes that she is signaling to someone, and notices Jeff across the courtyard. Jeff phones Doyle, now convinced that Thorwald is guilty of something, and Stella heads for the police station to post bail for Lisa, leaving Jeff alone. He soon realizes that Thorwald is coming to his apartment. When Thorwald enters the apartment and approaches him, Jeff repeatedly sets off his camera flashbulbs, temporarily blinding Thorwald. Thorwald grabs Jeff and pushes him toward the open window as Jeff yells for help. Jeff falls to the ground just as some police officers enter the apartment and others run to catch him. Thorwald confesses the murder of his wife and the police arrest him. A few days later, the heat has lifted and Jeff rests peacefully in his wheelchair, now with casts on both legs. The lonely neighbor woman chats with the songwriter in his apartment, the dancer's lover returns home from the army, the couple whose dog was killed have a new dog, and the newly married couple are bickering. In the last scene of the film, Lisa reclines beside Jeff, appearing to read a book on foreign travel in order to please him, but as soon as he is asleep, she puts the book down and happily opens a fashion magazine.In a wheelchair now, old-time prizefight promoter Sean O'Malley is down and almost out. He has one good boxer left, Johnny Monterez, who also has been seeing his daughter, Pat. Pat needs to take over the business. When she goes to training camp, Johnny's hand is seriously injured in a sparring bout. Johnny asks a doctor to keep his condition a secret. Pat, meanwhile, searches for old friend Rick Garvey, a sportswriter with a drinking problem, and finds him in jail. Johnny's young cousin Luis is also in jail and needs $200. Johnny defects to another promoter, Allan Goff, which leaves Pat feeling betrayed personally and professionally. Johnny also insults Rick, who is offended by some of Johnny's personal beliefs and comments. Sean O'Malley dies, leaving Johnny feeling ashamed for abandoning him. Johnny ends up taking a dive in the big fight, but is once again a standup guy with Pat and Rick.Having survived two years in Korea in a prisoner-of-war camp, Captain Edward W. Hall, Jr., returns home to San Francisco and reports to an Air Force base there. His father, a retired lieutenant colonel, is glad to have his son back, but still grieving over the death of his other son, Pete, in the war. Pete's widow, Aggie Hall, confides to her friend Caroline that it is difficult to be around her brother-in-law without being painfully reminded of having lost her husband. A welcome-home party is held for Capt. Hall, which surprises Colonel Dudley Smith, a friend of Ed, Sr. He finds out that Capt. Hall's father is unaware that Ed Jr. is about to be tried in a court-martial for collaboration with the enemy. Asking bluntly if the charges are true and being told that they are, Ed Sr. cruelly says to his son: "Why didn't you just die?" Major Sam Moulton prosecutes the case. He calls eyewitnesses who testify that at the POW camp in the winter of 1951, Capt. Hall made speeches and signed documents on the enemy's behalf. A much-decorated officer, Capt. John Miller, reveals the scars he received while a prisoner, all the while never conceding to his captors anything but his name, rank and serial number. Capt. Hall has his sister-in-law's support, but his father refuses even to attend the trial. Hall is disconsolate and wishes to plead guilty. But his lawyer, Lt. Col. Frank Wasnick, appeals to him to take the witness stand and explain his actions. In stark detail, Capt. Hall discloses the torture he underwent. How he was ordered to bury other soldiers, dead or alive. How he carried a wounded man for four days so he wouldn't collapse and be placed in a grave. How he was placed in solitary confinement for months at a time, denied light and company and forced to live in his own filth. After repeated demands to read propaganda statements, Capt. Hall agreed to do so but wrote one himself, using language that attempted to mock the enemy's purpose. The breaking point came soon after the enemy handed Capt. Hall a letter from his father that was intercepted, one revealing that his brother Pete was dead. Capt. Hall's father, who finally has come to the trial, is devastated by his son's testimony. He forgives him, but the official judgment is not so kind. Capt. Hall is found guilty of treason.The film is set in British East Africa in the early 20th century. Thousands of workers are building the Uganda Railway, Africa's first railroad, and intense heat and sickness make it a formidable task. Two men in charge of the mission are Jack Hayward and Dr. Angus Ross. A pair of man-eating lions are on the loose and completely disrupt the undertaking. Hayward desperately attempts to overcome the situation, but the slaughter continues. Britain sends three big-game hunters to kill the lions. With them comes Jack's wife. After the game hunters are killed by the lions, Jack sets out once and for all to kill them. A grim battle between Jack and the lions endangers both Jack and his wife. Jack kills the lions and proves he is not a weakling. The plot was based on a well-known historical event, that of the Tsavo maneaters, in which many workers building the Uganda Railway were killed. The incident was also the basis for The Man-eaters of Tsavo, the true story of the events written and published in 1907 by Lt. Col. J.H. Patterson, the British engineer who dispatched the animals. It was also the basis for the 1996 film The Ghost and the Darkness with Michael Douglas and Val Kilmer.Peter Nelson and Jerry Hotchkiss have just gotten out of the army. Hotchkiss decides to use the G.I. Bill to become a lion tamer. He gets a job with the Clyde Brent Circus , whose owner, Jill Brent, is in financial difficulties. Nelson tags along. Hotchkiss, while learning the lion trade, also does odd jobs at the circus, including filling in for the Human Cannonball. His real dream is to become a circus clown. Nelson, meanwhile, is shown a romantic interest by Saadia, Queen of the Trapeze, and quickly gets a job as her assistant. Brent has also shown interest in Nelson and becomes jealous. Hotchkiss finds Puffo the Clown in a drunken state, so he seizes the opportunity and fills in for Puffo. He takes the name "Jerrico the Wonder Clown" and becomes the new star of the circus. In the end, Nelson and Brent get together, and the circus is in better shape than ever thanks to its new clown.Mastermind Dave Purvis ([[William Talman  is a professional criminal who devises a scheme to rob an armored car on its last pickup of the day. He recruits Benny McBride to his gang of thieves. Benny needs money because Yvonne , his striptease artist wife, has lost interest in him and is seeing another man. But the man she is two-timing Benny with turns out to be Purvis. The robbery itself, at Wrigley Field in Los Angeles, begins as planned but then goes badly wrong when a passing police patrol car intervenes. Purvis kills one of the police officers from the patrol car and he and his fellow robbers make their getaway. Lt. Jim Cordell , the dead policeman's partner, takes it upon himself to bring in his partner's killer and throws himself into the case, assisted by a rookie offsider. Meanwhile, Purvis's gang unravels bit by bit as distrust and paranoia begins to build. Benny, wounded by police during the heist, is killed by Purvis as he demands his share of the loot from the robbery and attempts to seek medical help. Gang member Al Mapes ([[Steve Brodie  gets away and looks up Yvonne at the Burly Q where she works, intending to use her as a means to find Purvis, who has kept all the loot for himself. The waiting police, however, arrest Mapes at the Burly Q and learn Purvis's identity. After a further manhunt, Lt. Cordell and his team corner Purvis and Yvonne at Los Angeles airport, and Purvis is crushed by a taking-off plane as he tries to escape across the tarmac.Set at an army post in Kentucky at the end of 1944,{{cite web}} Vic Puccinelli and Alvin Korwin are former nightclub partners who are now enlisted in the United States Army. First Sergeant Puccinelli  now ranks above his former equal, Private First Class Korwin . Puccinelli is desperately trying to get transferred from his dull job to active duty overseas, but is not only refused transfer but is to be commissioned a Warrant Officer. Meanwhile, Korwin desperately wants a pass to see his wife and new baby. In addition, they both have to rehearse for the Army's talent show and avoid the wrath of Alvin's platoon sergeant, Sergeant McVey . Along the way they both sing a few songs, and they do an impression of Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald by recreating a scene from Going My Way for the talent show. Further complications include a Post Exchange worker who is pregnant, a company commander who gets all his information from his wife. a scheming supply sergeant, and a defective Coca Cola machine.She's in for a wild ride, when Jean Madison , a WAVE ensign, meets the crew of an Army Air Corps A-20 Havoc light bomber named Cynthia. The men are living high as members of the "52-20 club," a program in which unemployed American veterans receive $20 unemployment benefits for 52 weeks.{{cite web}} When receiving her own cheque, Jean meets their leader, Jimmy Stevens , who recruits her. Jimmy has proven his men are looking for work with a classified ad, "Combat Crew for hire; eager and willing to drop bombs", but has had no offers in post-war America. Jimmy shows her how to avoid the cheque-cashing fees by opening an account with a bank where she is rewarded with a ceramic piggy bank, which they take to the pawn shop for some more money. Jean learns that her fiancée, Henry, is not waiting for her as expected. All she wants to do is get on the bus back home to Walla Walla. But things aren't quite that simple. The crew is summoned to juke box king  Peter Pedigrew's office. Pedigrew has private detectives following Jean and the crew. He threatens to put them to work, ending their idyllic lifestyle, unless they keep Jean with them until her fiancée Henry arrives. Pedigrew explains that his ex-wife Shirley  intends to marry Henry. But the only way Pedigrew can remain solvent is to remarry Shirley, for the third time, and stop paying her alimony. So, he wants the crew to get Henry and Jean back together. Reluctantly they agree, under duress; they take the "Admiral" under their wing. The gang lives free and luxuriously in an empty aircraft factory, where Jimmy is a night watchman. Eddie,  artfully makes their furniture out of aircraft parts and other war surplus. They get their meals discounted, for stale stock, or in trade, as when Mike ([[Steve Brodie  stands in for the lifeguard at a private club. Former taxi driver Ollie  drives them around in a sound truck, from a local music store. Jimmy's fast-talking even gets them a ride on a speedboat for an ocean jaunt. Jean, whom the gang has nicknamed "The Admiral,” is amazed, then disgusted by their spending more effort thinking of ways to avoid work than being productive members of society. However, she discovers that they are living a dark secret. Jimmy feels guilty for Mike's injuries when their plane crashed during the war. Jimmy, the former head of an employment agency, will not res, until all his crewmembers have resolved things. Jimmy even takes Mike's place in a boxing match, since the injuries could kill Mike, though Jimmy has never been inside a ring in his life before. In the end, Pedigrew catches up with Shirley, Henry is waiting for Jean, and Eddie realizes he needs to go home to find out if his girlfriend will love him, even if he is poor. Finally, Pedigrew agrees to set up Mike and Ollie in business. So, that only leaves Captain Jimmy, finding he's in love with the Admiral, just as she's about to ship out. It's been a wild ride; but, it's not over, yet.Set in the early 1900s in the fictional Catfish Row section of Charleston, South Carolina, which serves as home to a black fishing community, the story focuses on the titular characters, crippled beggar Porgy, who travels about in a goat-drawn cart, and the drug-addicted Bess, who lives with stevedore Crown, the local bully. While high on cocaine supplied by Sportin' Life, Crown kills Robbins during a fight prompted by a craps game, and Bess urges him to flee. Sportin' Life suggests she accompany him to New York City, an offer Bess declines. She seeks refuge with her neighbors, all of whom refuse to help her. Porgy finally agrees to let her stay with him. Bess and Porgy settle into domestic life together and soon fall in love. Just before a church picnic on Kittiwah Island, Sportin' Life once again approaches Bess, but Porgy warns him to leave her alone. Bess wishes to stay with Porgy, since he cannot attend the picnic because of his disability, but he urges her to go. After the picnic ends, and before Bess can leave, Crown, who has been hiding in the woods on the island, confronts her. She initially struggles to resist him but Crown rapes her. The others, not knowing exactly what has happened, leave and return to the mainland. Two days later, Bess returns to Catfish Row in a state of delirium. When she recovers, she remembers what happened. Feeling that she betrayed Porgy, she begs his forgiveness. She admits she is unable to resist Crown and asks Porgy to protect her from him. Crown eventually returns to claim his woman, and when he draws his knife, Porgy strangles him. He is detained by the police merely to identify the body, but Sportin' Life, who has fed Bess cocaine, convinces her Porgy inadvertently will reveal himself to be the murderer. In her drugged state, she finally accepts his offer to take her to New York. When Porgy returns and discovers she is gone, he sets off to find her.Easygoing cowboy Dempsey Rae  and his impressionable young friend Jeff Jimson ([[William Campbell  wander into town and are hired to work for an absentee rancher named Reed Bowman. When Bowman finally shows up, Dempsey is surprised to find that he has been working for a very attractive woman , one who has very ambitious plans. These lead to conflict with her neighbors.Crippled trapeze aerialist and former star Mike Ribble  sees great promise in young, brash Tino Orsini . Ribble—only the sixth man to have completed the dangerous triple somersault—thinks his protégé is capable, under his rigorous training, of matching his feat. However, Orsini is distracted by the third member of their circus act, the manipulative Lola . Tensions rise as a love triangle forms.An assassin  is sent to kill a baby prince but cannot go through with it. He decides to raise the child as his own, and he grows up to be a thief .Most of the scenes are set in the corporate boardroom and surrounding offices of Ramsey & Co., a Manhattan industrial empire headed by the ruthless Walter Ramsey. He recruits youthful industrial engineer Fred Staples, whose performance at a company Ramsey has recently acquired has impressed the boss. Ramsey is grooming Staples to replace the aging Bill Briggs as the second in command at the company. Briggs has been with the firm for decades, having worked for and admired the company's founder, Ramsey's father. His concern for the employees clashes repeatedly with Ramsey's ruthless methods. Ramsey will not fire Briggs outright, but he does everything in his power to sabotage and humiliate his subordinate into resigning. The old man stubbornly refuses to give in. Staples has mixed feelings about the messy situation, ambition conflicting with sympathy for Briggs. The stress gets to Briggs, who collapses after a confrontation with Ramsey and later dies. This causes a heated showdown between Ramsey and Staples, in which Staples announces he is quitting. In the end, Ramsey persuades him to stay, telling him that he is the only one who can function at Ramsey's level, and that he would not be able to reach his full potential anywhere else. Staples accepts a promotion and double his salary and stock options, but warns Ramsey that he will actively work to replace Ramsey in the company. Staples also tells Ramsey of Briggs' "one little dream" of someday walking in and breaking Ramsey's jaw. He now reserves that dream for himself. Ramsey says he'll have it written into the contract agreement and will attach a special rider giving him the same privilege. Ramsey notes that Briggs' son will be "provided for" and Staples asks if that will let him sleep better tonight. Ramsey smiles and says, "It begins."While holidaying in Spain, Philip Graham  by chance runs into an old wartime RAF colleague Tony Roscoe , now a society photographer. The pair spend some time reminiscing, before Tony is urgently called back to England on business. Tony is required to fly home, so Philip offers to drive Tony's car back from Spain at the end of his holiday. Tony asks him to also pick up an envelope he has left in the hotel safe. After Tony's departure, Phil is attacked in a case of mistaken identity while driving Tony's car. When he reports the attack, a local police inspector  and a mysterious hotel guest Darius  both tell him that since his discharge from the RAF, Tony has become embroiled in suspicious and probably criminal activities and has been under surveillance. Back in England, Phil goes to return the car, only to find Tony dead on the floor of his darkroom. Phil becomes the prime suspect and, realising that the key to the case must be the contents of the envelope he has in his possession, sets about investigating on his own account. He quickly becomes drawn into a world of extortion and industrial espionage, focussed on a stolen medical formula which many people seem to want to get their hands on. Along the way he romances the enigmatic Mitzi  and also falls into the sphere of influence of sultry temptress Marina . Developments lead him back to Spain, where he finally manages to crack the mystery.In 1943, Captain Cliff Brandon  is a cargo aircraft pilot supplying the Allied troops fighting the Japanese in China. When he is not flying or training his new crew hard, he is usually drinking in the local bar. One night, while stumbling home drunk, he encounters an old Chinese man who offers him a girl, his daughter Shu-Jen . Brandon pays him, but when he sees the young woman, he tells the old man to keep her. When he wakes up the next morning, he finds Shu-Jen there. After Father Cairns , a longtime resident of China, expresses his disapproval, Brandon tries his best to get rid of her, assigning the task to Ellington, a young Chinese boy who speaks English well. Ellington tries to sell her into prostitution, but Father Cairns happens by and takes Shu-Jen back to Brandon. The priest finds out that Shu-Jen's father was a farmer, but he lost his land to the Japanese invaders. Destitute, he sold his daughter's services for three months to feed the rest of his large family. Cairns tells Brandon that, if he were to send the girl back, the old man would return the desperately needed money. So, over Brandon's protests, the priest gets him to keep the girl; Brandon tells her that she is there only as a housekeeper. He makes Ellington his live-in interpreter. Over time, however, love blooms, and Shu-Jen becomes pregnant. They get married in a traditional Chinese ceremony. After he is transferred to another base, she gives birth to their daughter. Later, they are reunited. While Brandon is flying a mission, the base is attacked. The returning flight is ordered to divert to a different airfield, but Brandon disobeys and lands his aircraft. When he cannot locate his family, he orders his crew to leave with the survivors. Then he finds Shu-Jen and Ellington both dead, but his daughter is alive. He puts his dog tag around her neck, then mans an anti-aircraft gun and shoots down one or two enemy aircraft before he is killed. In 1957, his former crewmates and their wives anxiously await the arrival in the United States of Brandon's daughter, found in an orphanage by Father Cairns, still with her father's dog tag.The plot concerns a doctor at a run-down psychiatric hospital, who is offered a large sum of money to shelter a new patient. Soon the place is full of suspicious and secretive characters, all apparently international secret agents trying to find out who and what the patient is.Scientist Russell Marvin and his new bride Carol are driving to work when a flying saucer appears overhead then zooms away. Without proof of the encounter other than a tape recording of the ship's sound, Dr. Marvin is hesitant to notify his bosses. He is in charge of Project Skyhook, an American space program that has already launched 10 research satellites into orbit. General Hanley, Carol's father, returns from an investigation and informs Marvin that many of the satellites have crashed. Marvin admits that he has lost contact with all of them and privately suspects alien involvement. The Marvins themselves witness the eleventh falling from the sky. When a saucer lands at the lab the next day soldiers immediately begin firing upon it, killing one alien who has left the ship, but the others and the ship itself are protected by the saucer's force field. The aliens then destroy the base, killing everyone but the Marvins, who are trapped underground. The general is kidnapped and taken away in the saucer. Russell records a broadcast from the aliens and plays it on a tape recorder, which just happened to be running low on its batteries. The message is slowed down enough that ther aliens' message can be understood: they wanted to meet with Dr. Marvin. Once rescued from the sub-basement, Marvin plays the message for his superiors, but they have to wait for authorization. Impatient, Marvin contacts the aliens and steals away to meet them, but Carol and Major Huglin follow him. They and a motorcycle cop are taken aboard a spaceship resting on Malibu Beach. They discover that the aliens have extracted knowledge from Gen. Hanley's brain, and now have him under their control, although they reassure Carol that they can restore him. They also claim to be the last of their species and that they shot down the satellites because they thought they were weapons. As proof of their power, the aliens give Marvin the coordinates of where they sank a destroyer that had fired on them. the humans are released with the message that the aliens want to meet the world's leaders in 56 days in Washington, D.C. to negotiate an occupation. The flying saucers are invulnerable to conventional weapons, but from his observations Marvin develops an ultra-sonic weapon, which is later upgraded to an effective anti-magnetic weapon. He feverishly starts building a prototype, and just as he finishes, a saucer arrives. Marvin tests his weapon and the saucer is disabled enough to send it wobbling away. As they leave, the aliens jettison Gen. Hanley and another captive, who fall to their deaths. Groups of alien ships then show up in the skies over Washington, Paris, London, and Moscow, and begin destroying everything. But there are enough of Dr. Marvins' new truck-mounted weapons deployed in Washington, D.C. to slowly shoot them down. One saucer clips and topples the Washington Monument, while another crashes into the Capitol Building and a third into Union Station. The defenders also discover that the aliens are vulnerable to small arms fire once they leave the immediate force fields of their saucers.Casper is fighting to retain control of the city's criminal activities when Frank Janser , an honest man and mayoral hopeful, begins a strong anti-crime campaign. Casper tasks Grace to dig up some dirt on the mayoral candidate and ruin his chances of election. Grace finds some dirt when he meets the man's sexy redheaded secretary, June Lyons . He follows her to a jail where she's picking up her red headed and equally sexy kleptomaniac sister Dorothy . Ben Grace eventually falls for June and gives her incriminating evidence about his boss, causing violent Caspar to kill a well-known newspaperman, and leave the city. Ben Grace takes over the racket, yet he has good instincts. At the same time, June is nervous because her sexually charged sister is attracted to Ben. Caspar returns for revenge and shoots Ben several times. The police enter the house and arrest Casper with gun in hand. A wounded Ben is taken to the hospital, as June and Dorothy follow in tow.Two pilots named Tsukioka and Kobayashi are hunting for schools of fish for a tuna cannery company in Osaka. Kobayashi's plane malfunctions and is forced to land near Iwato Island, an uninhabited strip of rocks formed by volcanic eruptions. Tsukioka then looks for Kobayashi and finds him safe, with only a wrist sprain. While talking, the two men hear some strange sounds and find two monsters fighting. Tsukioka immediately recognizes one of the monsters to be Godzilla. The two monsters then fall off a cliff, into the ocean. Tsukioka and Kobayashi report to the authorities in Osaka, and find out that the other monster Godzilla was fighting is Anguirus. A group of scientists with the two pilots research Anguirus in a book written by a Polish scientist. Godzilla and Anguirus lived around the same time millions of years ago, and there was an intense rivalry between the two monsters. Dr. Kyohei Yamane, who experienced Godzilla's attack in 1954, is also present at the meeting, and shows a film of the original Godzilla attacking Tokyo. He confirms that this Godzilla is a second member of the same species, and that it and Anguirus were probably brought back to life by the same hydrogen bomb tests that awoke the original Godzilla. Yamane states that there is no way to kill Godzilla, and that Dr. Daisuke Serizawa, the inventor of the Oxygen Destroyer, had died and burned the formula. Yamane, though, suggests that the military should use flares on Godzilla to attract the monster away from the shore. Godzilla becomes angry when he sees lights because the hydrogen bomb's bright explosion had awakened and mutated him. One day unexpectedly, Godzilla shows up on the shore of Osaka. Jets are sent to shoot flares from their planes to lead Godzilla away from the shore. Godzilla sees the flames, and, as Yamane predicted, starts to walk away. Meanwhile, a prison truck transports dangerous criminals to another part of the country. All of the criminals, using body language, decided that this would be a great opportunity to escape from prison. The prisoners beat up the two policemen guarding the back door of the truck, and run away. A few of them find a gasoline truck, and use it to escape. The truck crashes into an industrial building and starts a massive fire. The fire attracts Godzilla to the shore of Osaka again. A few minutes later, Anguirus swims to shore and attacks Godzilla. The two creatures fight an intense battle, while destroying several buildings, including the tuna cannery that Tsukioka and Kobayashi work for. Godzilla finally bites Anguirus's neck, and throws him on a moat near Osaka Castle. Godzilla then fires his atomic ray, and burns Anguirus to death. Tsukioka and Kobayashi are transferred to a Hokkaido plant. During a company party, Tsukioka and Kobayashi are notified that Godzilla destroyed one of the company fishing boats. The military, and Tsukioka begin a massive search for Godzilla. Tsukioka spots Godzilla swimming to the shore of a small, icy island. He notifies the cannery, and Kobayashi takes off in his plane to switch shifts with Tsukioka. Kobayashi dives his plane towards Godzilla to distract him from walking back into the ocean. Tsukioka then transferred to the air force, travels on a jet with an old college friend. They drop bombs on Godzilla but are unsuccessful. Godzilla then wades towards shore. Koboyashi dives towards Godzilla again but Godzilla fires his atomic ray on Kobayashi's plane. The plane then crashes on an icy mountain, killing Kobayashi. Tsukioka grieves but then notices that the military can shoot missiles at the mountain, and bury Godzilla in an avalanche. The jets fire the missiles, and bury Godzilla in snow to his waist. The jets return to base to reload, and Tsukioka is authorized to fly in his own jet. The jets return to the icy island, and shoot missiles at the mountain, burying Godzilla to his neck. Tsukioka then shoots his missiles burying Godzilla completely. Tsukioka looks to the sky, and says, "Kobayashi, we buried Godzilla for you."In this film's version of the story, four of the Reno Brothers are corrupt robbers and killers while a fifth, Clint  is a respected Indiana farmer. A sister, Laura , who has inherited the family home, serves as a housekeeper and cook to the brothers. Some of them served in the Civil War, which has given them a hardened attitude toward violence. One brother is killed when they go after a bank in a nearby town, leading them to draw the conclusion that someone that they know is an informant, as the men of the town appeared to have been waiting for them. They soon learn that it was Murphy, a local bartender, whom they then murder by knocking him out, and tying him up in his barn, which they then set ablaze. The bartender was in fact an agent employed by the Peterson  Detective Agency sent to investigate and provide information about the Reno Brothers' crimes. His replacement is Scott's character, James Barlow, a former secret agent for the Confederacy, who determines to join the gang by posing as a train robber, a ploy which is aided by his being allowed to pull off a staged train robbery  in the area.  Grudgingly accepted by the brothers , he soon learns that they have corrupted local officials, including a judge , allowing them to operate in that part of the state with near-impunity. The brothers plan a train robbery with Barlow, but this proves to be a setup in which they are captured following a shootout and taken to an area jail outside the jurisdiction of the corrupted officials.  Townspeople are incited to mob violence and break into the jail and lynch the brothers before they can be brought to trial despite Barlow's best efforts to stop this.Androcles is a fugitive Christian tailor who is on the run from his Roman persecutors. While hiding in the forest he comes upon a wild lion who, instead of attacking the weak and starving slave, approaches him with a wounded paw, which he holds out to Androcles as if to beg his assistance. Androcles sees that the source of the lion's agony is a large thorn embedded in the paw; the slave courageously pulls it out. The lion is greatly relieved but Androcles is arrested and joins a procession of Christian prisoners on their way to the Colosseum in Rome. Eventually he is placed in the arena and the lion is released upon him. It turns out to be none other than the lion which Androcles had helped, and the two embrace each other and begin dancing in front of thousands of aghast people and an astonished Roman Emperor. The Emperor orders an end to the persecution of Christians and allows Androcles and his lion friend "Tommy" to depart in peace.Joe's accidental snapshot of a paper plate blown by a breeze, is mistaken for a picture of a UFO. Moe and Larry, however, take the credit for the photo, and are paid a huge sum. Angered, Joe leaves the boys for a camping trip, only to meet two genuine and beautiful aliens from Planet Zircon who allow Joe to photograph them. Moe and Larry end up arrested when their UFO picture is revealed to be a fraud. They are put in strait jackets and incarcerated in a psychiatric hospital whilst Joe becomes a national hero.After three robberies are pulled off with military precision, Inspector McIver asks Hugh "Bulldog" Drummond to give Scotland Yard a hand. As an ex-officer, Drummond knows how the suspected military mastermind would think. He agrees, though he very reluctantly accepts Sergeant Helen Smith of Special Branch as his partner, believing that women are not cut out for that sort of undercover work. Drummond arranges to get caught cheating at poker at his London club so he can drop out of sight. Smith causes a minor car accident involving Arthur Gunns, suspected of being in the gang. Gunns' attraction to Smith and carefully planted evidence showing "Joe Crandall" and "Lily Ross" to be criminals themselves enables the pair to infiltrate the gang. However, Drummond's friend Algernon Longworth, who has been kept in the dark about the whole matter, becomes convinced that all is not what it seems. He telephones Colonel Webson, a member of Drummond's club, to get him to postpone Drummond's disciplinary meeting. Unfortunately, he inadvertently tips off the secret leader of the gang. Drummond and Smith are taken prisoner. Gunns's girlfriend Molly convinces him to go ahead with the latest planned robbery, enough to set them up for life, despite the police having been put on alert by Drummond. She masquerades as Smith to give phony information to Longworth to pass along to the police regarding the target of the theft. Afterward, Longworth is tied up as well. The gang steals £500,000 in gold being delivered by airplane. Drummond is able to overpower the guard and his friends before the gang returns. He knocks out Gunns . Webson shows up and holds Drummond at gunpoint; he explains he got into the racket because civilian life turned out to be unbearably boring. However, the police arrive just in time and take him into custody.Mild-mannered reporter Clark Kent and Lois Lane are sent to the small town of Silsby for the inauguration of the world's deepest oil well. Unbeknownst to the drillers, however, the drill shaft has penetrated the underground home of the "Mole Men", a race of small, furry  beings. The Mole Men come up through the shaft at night to explore the surface. When the creatures first emerge from the shaft, their sudden appearance scares the elderly night watchman to death. Lois Lane and Clark Kent soon arrive at the oil well and find the dead watchman. Subsequently, help arrives and while Clark Kent and the foreman are exploring the surrounding area for signs of intruders; Lois sees one of the creatures and screams in terror. But, no one believes her when she tells them what she saw. After the medical examiner who was summonded to the scene leaves with Lois, Clark stays behind to confront the foreman. The foreman confesses that the well was closed down for fear that they had struck radium and not oil. The foreman proceeds to show Clark ore samples that were collected during different stages of drilling; all of these glow brightly. Their peculiar appearance, plus the fact that everything they touch then becomes phosphorescent and glows in the dark combined with the creatures being spotted by several townspeople, scares the townspeople into forming an angry mob, led by the violent Luke Benson, in order to kill the "monsters". Superman is the only one able to resolve the conflict, saving one of the creatures from falling into the town's water supply after he has been shot by taking him to hospital, while the other is chased away. Later a doctor reveals that unless the creature undergoes surgery to remove the bullet, he will die. Clark Kent is forced to assist the doctor when the nurse refuses to out of fear of the creature. Soon afterward, Benson's mob shows up at the hospital demanding to have the creature turned over to them, leading Superman to stand guard outside the hospital. Lois Lane stands at Superman's side, until a shot is fired from the mob narrowly missing Lois. Superman sends her inside and begins to relieve the mob of their guns, sending the mob away. Later several more mole creatures emerge from the drill shaft, this time bearing a weapon. They make their way to the hospital. Benson and his mob see the creatures and Benson goes after them alone, but when the creatures see him they use their weapon and fire on him. Superman sees this and quickly jumps in front of the blast, saving Benson's life, which Superman says is "More than you deserve!". He fetches the wounded creature and returns him and his companions to the shaft. Soon after they destroy the shaft completely, making certain that no one or thing can come up or go down it ever again.The film opens with a three-minute, twenty-second tracking shot widely considered by criticsAlan Bacchus; The Long Take, Daily Film Dose, May 4, 2007; http://www.dailyfilmdose.com/2007/05/long-take.html as one of the greatest long takes in cinematic history. On the U.S.-Mexico border, a man plants a time bomb in a car. A man and woman enter the vehicle and make a slow journey through town to the U.S. border. Newlyweds Miguel "Mike" Vargas  and Susie  pass the car several times on foot. The car crosses the border, then explodes, killing the occupants.  Miguel Vargas is a drug enforcement official in the Mexican government. Realizing the implications of a Mexican bomb exploding on American soil, he takes an interest in the investigation. Police Chief Pete Gould ([[Harry Shannon  and District Attorney Adair ([[Ray Collins  arrive on the scene, followed by police Captain Hank Quinlan  and Quinlan's longtime partner, Pete Menzies . Quinlan and Menzies' prime suspect is Sanchez, a young Mexican secretly married to the victim's daughter. They interrogate him in his apartment with Vargas present. Vargas visits the bathroom and accidentally knocks over an empty shoebox. Moments later, Menzies announces that two sticks of dynamite were found in the same, empty, shoebox in the bathroom. Vargas suspects Quinlan may have been planting evidence for years to help win convictions. Quinlan dismisses Vargas' claim saying he is just biased in favor of fellow Mexicans. With assistance from District Attorney's Assistant Al Schwartz , Vargas studies the public records on Quinlan's previous cases, revealing his findings to Gould and Adiar. Quinlan arrives on the scene in time to overhear the discussion and angrily threatens to resign. Susie moved from her Mexican hotel to an American motel to escape the unwanted attention of Grandi , brother of a man Vargas has been investigating. She finds the motel, which Menzies recommended to her, has no other guests and is staffed only by a mentally challenged night manager . Grandi family members take over the motel. Vargas becomes concerned when his attempts to telephone Susie at the motel are sabotaged. Quinlan conspires with Grandi; they arrange for Susie to be kidnapped by the gang, injected with drugs, and taken to Grandi’s other motel in town. There, Quinlan strangles Grandi and frames Susie for the murder in order to discredit Vargas. Vargas confronts Menzies about the history of evidence "discovered" by Menzies or Quinlan. Menzies dismisses the claim. Vargas goes to Susie's motel but discovers her - and the gun he left with her - missing. Learning the motel is owned by Grandi, Vargas travels to Grandi's other motel in search of Susie, and confronts the gang members who attacked her; when the gang members refuse to answer him, Vargas violently beats them down. Al informs Vargas that Susie has been arrested for murder; at the lockup Vargas finds her barely conscious. Menzies reveals to Vargas he discovered Quinlan's cane at the murder scene. Vargas fits Menzies with a wire. Menzies confronts Quinlan at an oil refinery and they discuss Quinlan's activities while being tracked on foot by Vargas recording the conversation. Quinlan states to Menzies that he planted evidence on people, but they were nevertheless "guilty, guilty". Quinlan hears the feedback; Quinlan says his "game leg" informs him of Menzies' wire. Quinlan demands Vargas show himself; when he does, Quinlan shoots Menzies with Vargas' gun. Quinlan prepares to shoot Vargas, but is shot by the dying Menzies. It is revealed Sanchez has confessed and really did commit the crime. Vargas leaves town with Susie.Alexander, Boris and Vasily are three old friends, who now rarely see each other as they are busy with their professional life. They embark on long-planned voyage on a raft down the Volga river, which turns into a series of comical accidents but also strengthens their friendship.Dieter, Angela, Kohle and Karl-Heinz are a group of delinquent youths who prowl Schönhauser Allee, in Berlin's Prenzlauer Berg. The four, each with his troubled life, are often in trouble with the police. Karl-Heinz steals an identity document and uses it to enter West Berlin, where he murders a man while committing armed robbery. The police suspects that his friends assisted him. When he returns, Kohle and Dieter try to find out what he had done; He threatens them both with a pistol, and Kohle knocks him unconscious. Dieter and he believe they have killed Karl-Heinz, and flee to West Berlin, from where they plan to get to the Federal Republic of Germany. Dieter regrets their escape. He pretends to be sick, so Kohle would leave without him. He drinks a solution of coffee and tobacco to feign illness. On the next day, he discovers "Kohle" dead, after he consumed the remains of the beverage. Dieter returns home, where Angela awaits his child, and explains the situation to the police. He is released, while Karl-Heinz is imprisoned.The Stooges are trying to obtain their inheritance from their late uncle. Unfortunately, it has been swiped by con man Icabod Slipp ([[Kenneth MacDonald . The trio track Slipp down at the Circle Follies Theatre, and duke it out.In 1860 Buffalo Bill and Wild Bill Hickok join forces to establish a mail route from St. Joseph, Missouri, to Sacramento, California. On the way they battle the weather, hostile Indians and California secessionists intent on shutting the operation down to encourage California to secede from the Union.An expedition to the moon encounters a race of "Cat-Women", the last eight survivors of a 2-million-year-old civilization, deep within a cave where they have managed to maintain the remnants of a breathable atmosphere that once covered the moon. The remaining air will soon be gone and they must escape if they are to survive. They plan to steal the expedition's spaceship and return to Earth. Through the use of their telepathic ability the Cat-Women have been subliminally controlling Helen Salinger  so she can win the navigator slot on the expedition and lead the crew to their location. Once Helen and the male members of the crew arrive on the moon the Cat-Women take complete control of her mind. They are unable to control the men's minds, but they work around this obstacle with Helen's help and the use of their superior abilities and feminine wiles. "Show us their weak points," one says to Helen. "We'll take care of the rest." Along with telepathy, the Cat-Women have the ability to transport themselves unseen from place to place within the cave. They use this ability to steal the crew's spacesuits from the mouth of the cave, where they were left. Using Helen to smooth things over after an earlier failed attack on the crew, the Cat-Women approach the men openly. Food and drink are brought out and a party ensues. Kip  is suspicious after discovering the spacesuits are missing and confronts the Cat-Women's leader Alpha , who promises to return the suits in the morning. Kip sits alone, unable to intervene while the Cat-Women exploit the "weak points" of expedition commander Laird  and the other men. Soon the Cat-Women have learned how to operate the spaceship and are well on their way to success. But Lambda  falls in love with crew member Doug  and tells him of the plot. Carrying three spacesuits, Alpha, Beta and Helen make a break for the ship. Lambda teleports ahead to delay them and is killed by Beta . Kip catches up and fires several shots; Alpha and Beta are killed; Helen is uninjured. The expedition escapes and begins their return to Earth.In 1954, a military train guarded by American soldiers and Japanese police is attacked as it travels between Kyoto and Tokyo. During the raid, which is carried out with great precision, an American sergeant is killed, and the train's cargo of guns and ammunition is stolen. The crime is investigated by Capt. Hanson, an American, and Japanese police inspector Kita, who, five weeks later, are concerned when a thief named Webber is shot with some of the stolen bullets. As Webber lies dying in a Tokyo hospital, he is questioned by Hanson and Kita, and although Webber was left for dead by his gang during a thwarted robbery, he refuses to implicate his cohorts, who presumably are responsible for the earlier crime. Webber, who is also an American, does reveal, however, that he is secretly married to a Japanese woman named Mariko. Among Webber's possessions is a letter from an American named Eddie Spanier, who wants to join Webber in Japan after his release from a U.S. prison. Three weeks later, Eddie arrives in Tokyo and finds Mariko, who is initially afraid that he is one of the men responsible for her husband's death. Eddie gains Mariko's trust with a photograph of himself and Webber, then warns her to keep quiet about her marriage so that she will not be in danger from Webber's killers. Later, Eddie goes to a pachinko parlor, in which patrons gamble on intricate machines similar to pinball machines. There, Eddie attempts to sell "protection" to the manager, but when he tries the same tactic at another such parlor, he is beaten and warned to leave by racketeer Sandy Dawson and his henchmen, Griff, Charlie, Willy and Phil. Intrigued by Eddie's presence in Japan, Sandy arranges for him to be arrested, and Sandy's secret informer, who is connected to the police department, obtains Eddie's rap sheet. Convinced of Eddie's aptitude for crime, Sandy invites him to join his gang, which consists of former American servicemen who have been dishonorably discharged. After his acceptance into the gang, Eddie secretly meets with Kita and Hanson, for whom he is working undercover. Needing help from someone he can trust, Eddie asks Mariko to live with him as his "kimono girl," although he does not reveal his identity as a military police investigator. Hoping to discover who killed her husband, Mariko resides with Eddie despite being ostracized by her neighbors, who do not know that her relationship with the foreigner is platonic. As time passes, Sandy grows to trust Eddie, although Eddie is shocked during a robbery when a wounded gang member is killed by Griff to prevent him from talking. Eddie is also wounded, but Sandy makes an exception to his rule of killing fallen men and saves him. Eddie finally informs the worried Mariko that his real name is Sgt. Kenner, and that he is investigating Sandy. Meanwhile, Griff, Sandy's "ichiban" or "number one boy," becomes jealous of Sandy's reliance upon Eddie, and Sandy relieves the hot-headed Griff of his duties. The next day, Mariko, who has fallen in love with Eddie, notifies Kita and Hanson about a planned robbery, but Sandy's informant, reporter Ceram, warns him that the police are poised to capture him. After the robbery is aborted, Sandy kills Griff, whom he mistakenly assumes tipped off the police. Ceram informs Sandy of his mistake, and Sandy retaliates by setting Eddie up to be killed by the Japanese police during a robbery of a pearl broker. When the plan fails, Sandy is chased by the police up to a rooftop amusement park, but after an intense gunfight, Eddie succeeds in shooting and killing Sandy. Later, wearing his military uniform, Eddie walks with Mariko in a Tokyo park.Will Kane , the longtime marshal of Hadleyville, New Mexico Territory, has just married pacifist Quaker Amy Fowler  and turned in his badge. He intends to become a storekeeper elsewhere. Suddenly, the town learns that Frank Miller ([[Ian MacDonald &mdash;a criminal Kane brought to justice&mdash;is due to arrive on the noon train. Miller had been sentenced to hang but was pardoned on an unspecified legal technicality. In court, he had vowed to get revenge on Kane and anyone else who got in the way. Miller's three gang members (his younger brother Ben , Jack Colby  wait for him at the station. Kane and his wife leave town, but fearing that the gang will hunt him down and be a danger to the townspeople, Kane turns back. He reclaims his badge and scours the town for help, even interrupting Sunday church services, with little success. His deputy, Harvey Pell , resigns because Kane did not recommend him as the new marshal. Kane goes to warn Helen Ramírez , first Frank Miller’s lover, then Kane's, and now Harvey's. Aware of what Miller will do to her if he finds her, she quickly sells her business and prepares to leave town. Amy gives her husband an ultimatum: she is leaving on the noon train, with or without him. The worried townspeople encourage Kane to leave, hoping that would defuse the situation. Even Kane's good friends the Fullers are at odds about how to deal with the situation. Mildrid Fuller  wants her husband  to speak with Kane when he comes to their home, but he makes her claim he is not home. In the end, Kane faces the Miller Gang alone. Kane guns down two of the gang, though he himself is wounded in the process. Helen Ramírez and Amy both board the train , but Amy gets off when she hears the sound of gunfire. Amy chooses her husband's life over her religious beliefs, shooting Pierce from behind. Frank then takes her hostage to force Kane into the open. However, Amy suddenly attacks Frank, giving Kane a clear shot, and Kane shoots Frank Miller dead. As the townspeople emerge, Kane contemptuously throws his marshal's star in the dirt and leaves town with his wife.Presley plays Clint Reno, the youngest of the four Reno brothers who stays home to take care of his mother and the family farm as older brothers Vance, Brett and Ray fight in the American Civil War for the Confederate Army. The family is mistakenly informed that eldest brother Vance has been killed on the battlefield. After four years of war, the brothers return home and find that Vance's girlfriend Cathy has married Clint. Although Vance accepts this wholeheartedly , the family has to struggle to reach stability with this issue. The subplot of unresolved passion carries the film; it is clear from the outset upon the Reno brothers return home that Cathy still loves Vance, although she is true to the younger Clint. Honor prevails for Vance, but jealousy turns Clint into an irrationally thinking rival for the love of the heroine. In the film's opening scenes, the main plot is presented; the three Reno brothers, serving as Confederate cavalrymen, attack a Union train carrying Federal payroll of $12,000. They do not know that the war ended only a day before. The Confederates come to a decision to keep the money as spoils of war, an issue that will come back into the plot after the Reno brothers return home. A conflict of interest ensues when Vance tries to return the money against the wishes of some of his fellow Confederates, all of whom are being sought by the U.S. Government for robbery. The film reaches its tragic conclusion with a gunfight between Clint and Vance, ironically ending with Clint's death during a final shootout. In the end, the money is returned, the Reno brothers are acquitted, and the other three ex-Confederates are arrested for Clint's death. The youngest Reno brother is laid to rest at the family farm.Logan Cates  sets out to rescue a white woman captured by Apache Indians and prevent a war. On the way he is joined by a few civilians and a small band of soldiers at a water hole. They are ambushed and laid siege to by Apache. As their food and water supplies dwindle a storm arrives which enables Cates to put an escape plan into action.Father John X. Halligan  is a Catholic Priest visiting Rome, Italy for the 1950 Holy Year. Along the way, a con man named Joe Brewster , who is wanted by American authorities, steals Halligan's clothing and his identity in the hopes of evading arrest. The Italian police soon find the real Fr. Halligan, the police chief  assures him that they will find and arrest Brewster. Halligan soon manages to track down Brewster on his own. The two men begin to develop a friendship of sorts and Brewster eventually makes his first confession in many years to Fr. Halligan. The two then make their way through the streets of Rome and the Vatican, visiting all the major basilicas as part of a pilgrimage. Halligan helps Brewster evade arrest long enough to complete his pilgrimage, while doing so they come across a monastery where the men never talk to anyone except to a superior. Brewster finds himself drawn to the place during his brief visit. After visiting the monastery, Halligan and Brewster become separated. Halligan convinces the police to allow Brewster to complete his pilgrimage, at which point he is taken into custody. Halligan pleads with the police chief to release Brewster, and is convinced that Brewster is reformed. Then the news comes that Brewster had somehow escaped again, which leaves Halligan unsure of himself and his abilities. Later retracing his steps, Halligan comes to the same monastery that he and Brewster had visited earlier. To his surprise he finds Brewster now living there as a monk. He asks the abbot if he believes that Brewster is sincere, the abbot thinks Brewster is, and that Brewster told him his whole story. Brewster, using a pen and paper to communicate, tells Halligan that while in prison he was in a place that was all past, and instead he wants to be in a place that is all future. He further asks Halligan when the next Holy Year will take place, Halligan responds that it would take place in 25 years. When Brewster asks if he'll visit then, Halligan assures him that he will.Late one night in Los Angeles, Sgt. Fred Matthews and Officer Lynn Donahue arrest pusher Jerome Lake, who is carrying two pounds of uncut heroin. They are ambushed by gangsters Mitch Swadurski and Lenny Potter, who kill Matthews and wound Donahue, then shoot and kill Lake after he tosses the briefcase containing the heroin into the underbrush. Unable to recover the drugs before other police cars arrive, the criminals retreat, and the next day, the case is found by eighteen-year-old Julian "Ves" Vespucci as he delivers groceries from his father's store. Ves takes the case to the back room of his father's store, where he and his pals, would-be artist Jim Bowers and bodybuilder Nick Raymond, hang out. Because the case contains samples of women's cosmetics, and the canister containing the heroin is labeled face powder, the young men assume that the powder is worthless and throw the can away, although Jim keeps some of the cosmetics for his girl friend Kathy. The boys pawn the briefcase at the shop owned by Samuel Alber, and the next day, Jim takes the samples to Kathy and proposes to her. Kathy demurs, telling him that she wants things to be "nice" when she gets married and is afraid that he will be unable to support them. Jim then sees a newspaper headline about the missing narcotics and rushes to tell Nick and Ves. Ves had already tossed the canister in a dumpster, which has since been picked up by a garbage truck, and so the young men race to the city dump. After a frantic search, they find it and return to the store, where they debate the ethics of selling the heroin. Nick convinces Jim and Ves that the potential profits are worth it, and takes them to meet Danny, a heroin addict. Meanwhile, the police and the mob are searching for the drugs, using every contact they have in the underworld and on the streets. Danny is thrilled by the small "test" packet of heroin brought to him by the boys and agrees to sell it for them, especially when they tell him that they can supply him with as much as he can sell. The police grow frustrated by the lack of information, and Stan speculates with Capt. Allen that a new mob is attempting to move in and might have the drugs. The three friends are awed by the money that Danny gets for the heroin, and while Nick and Ves spend a day shopping, Jim buys a bracelet for Kathy. When he explains where he got the money, Jim is surprised by Kathy's vehement rejection of the bracelet. She upbraids him for profiting from other's weakness, although he protests. Kathy storms away. Jim then goes to Danny's to make a delivery and asks him what taking heroin is like. Danny relates that he first sampled the drug "for fun" with his friends but then quickly got addicted. In harrowing detail, Danny describes having kicked the drug "cold turkey" after being arrested, then relates that he has gone through withdrawal three times because he keeps succumbing to his addiction. Deeply moved by Danny's story, Jim grows even more reluctant to continue selling. The police obtain their first break when Alber contacts them about the briefcase he bought from the boys. Although Alber did not record the young men's names, he recalls that one was named Nick and worked in a garage. Lenny and Mitch learn from a local pusher that Danny has been selling small but steady amounts of heroin. Jim confronts Ves and Nick, telling them that he wants out of their scheme completely, even though they offer to keep giving him his share of the proceeds. Jim wants to give the drugs to the police, but acquiesces when his friends protest. After the boys leave for the local bowling alley, Danny is brutally questioned by Lenny and Mitch at his shack. Later that night, Nick leaves the bowling alley to collect the day's earnings from Danny, and he, too, is beaten by the gangsters. When Nick's date becomes impatient, Ves goes to Danny's and is also captured by Mitch and Lenny, who force him to call Jim. Although Ves begs Jim to bring the rest of the drugs to Danny's, Jim insists that he is going to turn them over to the police. Mitch and Lenny then take Ves to the store, arriving just after Jim has retrieved the canister. Ves shouts a warning to Jim to run, and the gangsters pursue him. As Ves then telephones the police, Jim climbs a tower in a power plant. When Lenny cannot reach Jim from one angle, Mitch begins to climb after Jim, but the young man pours the heroin onto Mitch's upturned face. The police soon arrive and capture Lenny, then shoot Mitch, who falls to his death. After Jim climbs down, he is told by Ves that Nick is in the hospital. The two young men are then arrested and led off to face the consequences of their greed.Off-duty American airmen of the 19th Troop Carrier Squadron in Hawaii are ordered to report to their squadron in July 1948. What is briefed as a temporary "training assignment" in the United States becomes a flight halfway around the world to Germany for the C-54 Skymasters of the 19th, where the Soviets have blockaded Berlin in an attempt to force out the Allies by starving the city. Tech Sgt. Danny MacCullough , flight engineer of a C-54 nicknamed The White Hibiscus, is immediately ordered to fly with his crew from Frankfurt into Tempelhof Airport to deliver a load of coal. His friend Master Sgt. Hank Kowalski ([[Paul Douglas , a Ground-Control Approach operator, hitches a ride with them to his new station. Hank, a POW during World War II, resents the German people and goes out of his way to be rude and overbearing to them. Danny on the other hand is frustrated by not being able to leave the airport because of the necessity of quickly offloading and returning to Frankfort. Months later the crew of call sign "Big Easy 37" renames their airplane Der Schwarze Hibiscus because of the grimy soot that has accumulated in it from hauling coal. They become temporary celebrities on a mission when they are the 100,000th flight of "Operation Vittles" into Berlin. Danny is immediately enamored of Frederica Burkhardt , an attractive German war widow chosen to thank him on behalf of the women of Berlin. When a news correspondent covering the ceremony recruits Danny for a public relations stunt, Danny jumps at the opportunity as a means of getting a pass in Berlin and seeing Frederica again. During a tour of the city, Danny's uniform is accidentally covered with poster paste, forcing him to wear civilian working clothes while his uniform is cleaned. They meet Hank and his "Schatze," the friendly and intelligent Gerda, at a night club, where Hank is rude to Frederica and treats Gerda as an inferior. Hank chances to see the former prison guard who tortured him as a POW and nearly beats him to death. Danny is able to stop Hank only by knocking him down and is mistaken for a German attacking Hank, is chased into the Russian Sector by MPs. Danny and Frederica barely escape back into the American Sector, where Hank is waiting for them at Frederica's apartment and has unexpectedly befriended her neighbor and Danny's friend, Herr Stieber . Danny falls in love with Frederica, despite learning from Hank that she lied to him about the backgrounds of her dead husband and father. She exploits Danny's feelings as an opportunity to go to America, where her German lover is living. When Danny receives notice that he is due to rotate back to the United States soon, he arranges to marry Frederica. Herr Stieber suspects duplicity in Frederica and intercepts a letter she has written to her German lover, confirming that she intends to divorce Danny back in the United States as soon as she legally can—and see her lover behind his back until that happens. In the meantime, Hank, in trying to teach Gerda the meaning of democracy , comes to see that he has been hypocritical in his own actions toward Germans. He begins treating Gerda as an equal and with affection as they meet Frederica to be witnesses to the wedding. When Danny arrives, he tells Fredrica she will have to wait a long time, if ever, to get to America. Herr Stieber has given Danny the letter she wrote. Hank reveals to Danny that he is not going home but has switched his temporary assignment in Berlin to permanent duty. Danny's flight out departs amidst rumors that the Russians will soon end the blockade.Summary: A wagon train must find another way than fighting to cross hostile Pawnee territory in 19th Century America. A small group of families join together to travel to Oregon in 1846. Their leader is ostensibly James Stephen (George Reeves, TV's [[Adventures of Superman , who has made the trip before, and is now bringing his family along. John Grayson , known as Doc for his ambition to study medicine, however, proves to be the real leader of the wagon train. The pioneers deal with the elements and occasional raids, but after hostile Pawnees drive off their spare horses, they realize they may not make it to the Oregon Territory. While stopping at Fort Laramie, the pioneer children make friends with Sioux children. After the Sioux chief's son is injured in an accident, Doc Grayson helps heal him, earning the trust of the Sioux. As the story ends, the Sioux warriors escort the wagon train safely through Pawnee territory.A family, the Stilwins embark on a vacation into desolate Baja California and a remote, deserted fishing spot along the coast the father used to frequent with his old military buddies. At a roadside barricade heading into the serious Baja outback, they are inspected by police but aren’t told about a deranged killer who has escaped from prison and is at large in the area. Upon arrival at the secret fishing spot, young Bobby goes exploring out onto a rotting pier. He can’t work his way back, and when Dad attempts to come to his son’s rescue, the pier gives way. Dad isn’t hurt, but a piling falls on his leg and traps him on the beach just as the tide is coming in. The Stilwins quickly determine that if Pop isn’t freed within a few hours, he will drown in the rising surf. All attempts to move the log are futile and wife Helen takes the car to get help. However, an escaped criminal kidnaps her. Can the woman get back to her husband before he drowns in the surf?Professor Donald Blake  acquires a newly-discovered coelacanth. He begins to examine the find and is exposed to its irradiated blood. This turns him into a murderous Neanderthal monster that terrorizes the campus. Troy Donahue appears as a college student, a speaking part.By late 1944, it is obvious that the Germans will lose the war. Colonel Devlin  leads a military intelligence unit that recruits German prisoners of war to spy on their former comrades. "Tiger" , a cynical older thief and ex-circus worker, is willing to work for whichever side is winning. On the other hand, "Happy"  is a young idealist who volunteers after his friend is killed by fanatical fellow prisoners for voicing doubts about the war's outcome. Monique  trains Happy and the others in espionage techniques; she takes a liking to the young man, despite her hatred for Germans. One day, Devlin receives word that a German general is willing to negotiate the surrender of his entire corps. Naturally, this is given top priority; because of the importance of the mission, an American officer has to go along. Devlin selects Lieutenant Rennick , a newcomer who distrusts the German turncoats. Tiger is chosen because he is the only one who knows the area, but he is under suspicion after returning from his last mission without his teammate. Happy is assigned the related task of locating the 11th Panzer Corps, which might oppose the wholesale defection. They parachute out of the same plane, then split up. In the course of his search, Happy encounters Germans with differing attitudes towards the war, some resigned, like Hilde , a few still defiant, such as Waffen SS courier Scholtz . Happy accomplishes his mission by a stroke of luck. Posing as a medic returning to his unit, he is commandeered to treat Oberst von Ecker , the commander of the 11th Panzer. Afterwards, he is sought by the Gestapo. Narrowly escaping capture, Happy makes his way to a safe house where the other two agents are hiding out. Meanwhile, Tiger and Rennick have learned that the general they were to contact was supposedly injured, but the hospital where he has been taken is under SS guard; without him, the other German officers cannot and will not act. The radio is knocked out, so they are forced to try to swim across a heavily-defended river to get to the American lines with the vital information. At the last moment, Tiger loses his nerve and runs away, forcing Rennick to shoot him. He and Happy then swim to an island in the middle of the river. When they start for the other shore, they are spotted by the German defenders. Happy creates a diversion, is captured and executed as a deserter, but his sacrifice enables the lieutenant to make it to safety, with a changed attitude about some Germans.Mike Callahan  is an Irish émigré and war veteran working in Singapore as a private detective. He takes on a case from a former flame, now a nightclub singer. She thinks her husband Julian March  is involved in criminal activities and asks him to help out. Callahan learns that a man named Alexis Pederas  has involved Julian in a plot to kidnap a prominent nuclear scientist Sean O'Connor and hold him for ransom to the highest bidder. O'Connor is one of the only men in the world that knows how to detonate the H-Bomb.A couple are found wandering nearly dead in a desert. Recovering, they tell their story. The movie flashes back a year. A mad scientist, Dr. Aranya , has created giant spiders in his Mexican lab in Zarpa Mesa to create a race of superwomen by injecting spiders with human pituitary growth hormones. Women develop miraculous regenerative powers, but men mutate into disfigured dwarves. Spiders grow to human size and intelligence. Aranya invites another scientist, Dr. Masterson, to join him. Masterson visits Zarpa but is horrified. Aranya has him injected with a drug, turning him into a doddering simpleton. Masterson escapes, and visits a cantina. A rich man  and his young American fiancee also visit the cantina while their private plane is repaired. Masterson joins them and fawns over Doreen. Tarantella,  one of Aranya's best spider women, does a strange and sensual dance for Masterson. He shoots Tarantella . Masterson hijacks Van Croft's group, forcing them to fly in the un-repaired plane. They crash land onto Zarpa Mesa. Soon the small group begins to be killed off one by one by giant spiders. Grant , Doreen and Masterson are captured by Dr. Aranya. Masterson recovers from his drug-induced imbecility, sacrifices himself to let the others escape, blowing up the lab. Grant and Doreen wanders into the desert until picked up by the oil surveyor from the movie's opening scenes.Shortly before Christmas in New York, one-armed insurance investigator Jack Williams  is looking at a college yearbook photo of John Hansen when someone slips into his apartment and shoots him to death. Hot-headed private investigator Mike Hammer , Jack's war buddy, vows to avenge his friend's death despite a warning from Pat Chambers , captain of the homicide squad, to let the police handle the case. Pat is unable to calm Mike, who roughs up a wisecracking reporter before leaving the crime scene. Knowing that Mike will forge ahead with an investigation regardless of his advice, Pat urges the offended reporter to publish an article broadcasting that Mike is on the job. Mike goes to see Jack's fiancée, Myrna Devlin, a torch singer and reformed drug addict, but she is too distraught to talk with him. The next day, Mike's secretary Velda tells him about the article, titled "I, the Jury," which suggests that Mike knows the identity of the killer, thereby making him a target. Because Pat has given him a guest list from Jack's recent party, Mike surmises that the police captain is using him to draw out the killer. Mike begins his investigation based on the guest list, first visiting wealthy fight promoter and art collector George Kalecki  in upstate New York. Kalecki introduces his live-in friend, John Hansen, as college student Hal Kines ([[Bob Cunningham , and claims they were home together after the party. As Mike is leaving he looks through a window and sees the men arguing. Mike next visits alluring psychoanalyst and author Charlotte Manning , who was treating both Jack and Myrna. Charlotte flirts with Mike but provides no new information.  Afterward Mike finds Pat waiting for him, and Pat tells him that Kines moved out of Kalecki's house and that Kines believes Mike attempted to shoot him. Kines's new address is the same building where two other party guests, twin sisters Esther and Mary Bellamy, reside. Mike searches Kines's apartment and finds photos of him and Kalecki in Europe before and after World War II. When Kines returns unexpectedly and grabs Mike's arm, the detective beats him up, then goes upstairs to see Mary, who knew Jack when he worked as a guard at her father's estate. As Mike resists Mary's attempts to seduce him, he questions her about the party and learns that Charlotte drove her, Myrna and Esther home that night after Jack and Myrna had an argument. Later at his office, ex-boxer Killer Thompson reveals to Mike and Velda  that Kalecki, his former manager, runs a numbers racket. Mike seeks more information about the racket but his questions earn him only a severe beating by some thugs. Charlotte tends to his wounds and restores his spirits with a kiss, then asks if Jack might have left a message for Mike before he died. Mike slips into Jack's apartment through a window to avoid the policeman on guard, and finds a note from Pat, who anticipated his arrival. Mike also finds Jack's diary, which includes notations about a woman named Eileen Vickers ([[Mary Anderson , who changed her name to Mary Wright, as well as a note that Jack had been planning to raid a dance school with the police in a few days. Mike locates Eileen's father, veterinarian R. H. Vickers, who reveals that he had asked Jack to help his daughter after she ran away from college with John Hansen. Mike finds Eileen at a dance school that is a front for prostitution. Although she is shocked to hear about Jack's death, she only knows that he wanted her to get help from Charlotte.  Despite all the information he has gathered, Mike has more questions than answers. He and Pat continue their research by looking through college yearbooks and find the photo of Hal Kines, who is identified as John Hansen. After police implement Jack's raid on the dance studio, they find Eileen's and Kines's dead bodies in Eileen's room. After Kalecki admits that he and Kines had argued over the young man's involvement with Esther, Mike is baffled as to why he was found with Eileen. Confusion continues to mount, and Charlotte and Mike are nearly killed when someone fires at them outside his office. Mike is awakened that night by Bobo, a slow-witted former boxer now working as a department store Santa Claus, who warns Mike that "the big man" is after him. After learning that Kines has been posing as a college student for twenty years, Velda suspects that he may have been running Kalecki's numbers racket at school, using his identity as a student as a cover. Mike goes to search Kines's room at the fraternity house and discovers Kalecki inside burning Kines's papers. Kalecki shoots at Mike and is killed when Mike fires back. Mike grabs Kalecki's gun just as the police arrive to arrest him. Angered that Mike is taking the law into his own hands, Pat waits until the next day to release him from jail. Mike then gives him Kalecki's gun and they later search Kalecki's safe-deposit box, which is filled with stolen vintage European jewelry. The detectives now realize that Jack must have been investigating Kalecki and Kines, who had been fencing stolen jewelry from Europe for years. A police analyst determines that although all four murders were committed by the same weapon, it was not Kalecki's gun. Knowing that Myrna was once a jewel thief, Pat now suspects that she may have been influenced by Kalecki to murder her fiancé. As before, Mike confides in Charlotte, with whom he has fallen in love, and tells her he believes that Kines worked the college campuses to recruit new thieves for Kalecki. When Pat learns that Myrna is drunk in a bar, he sends Mike and Charlotte to retrieve her, and they take the drunken woman to Charlotte's apartment to sober up. After Mike leaves, however, Charlotte injects Myrna with sodium pentothal and questions her about Jack, but Myrna is too disoriented to respond. Mike, meanwhile, is beaten up by Kalecki's thugs at his office, but he turns the tables on them and they are eventually arrested; however, they reveal no new information when questioned. When Myrna is found dead in the street from a hit and run accident, the medical examiner finds the needle mark on her arm, prompting Pat to assume that she had returned to drug use. Mike then realizes that Charlotte murdered Myrna, and surmises that Charlotte found out about the jewelry racket during a hypnosis section with Kines and that she plans to take over Kalecki's business. Mike waits for Charlotte in her apartment and levels his accusations at her. Charlotte attempts to seduce him, but in fact is reaching for a hidden gun as she embraces him, forcing Mike to kill her in self-defense.The pre-credit sequence of the film starts out with Bureau of Indian Affairs Commissioner Kirby and the last survivor of his US Cavalry escort shot and scalped by Taslik and his squaw Wanima. The film proper begins with Lt. Billings leading his patrol that has escorted Cpl Hamilton, a cartographer who has been making maps of the area. On the way back to the fort they are met by a messenger who brings orders that they are to meet Commissioner Kirby and his party at a trading post in order to deliver a recently signed Indian treaty from Washington to the Chief of the local tribe. The messenger gives the treaty to the Lieutenant who commandeers the messenger to join his patrol. The patrol, who are unaware of the fate of Kirby and his party have nine days to get the treaty to the Chief lest a new uprising start. At the trading post is Taslik, who offers to lead the patrol to the Chief. Taslik is wearing war paint that he explains is from his killing members of a rival tribe who have trespassed on his tribe's land. Unknown to the patrol, Taslik and Wanima, who is shadowing the patrol, are strongly against the peace treaty. The two sabotage the patrol's supplies at every turn in various undetected ways. On their journey the patrol discovers the remains of Commissioner Kirby's escort. The patrol finally get wise to Taslik when they discover he has led them in a giant circle looking for water. With time rapidly vanishing Lt. Billings collects all the remaining water of the rapidly diminishing patrol to fill one water bottle. This is given to one of the troopers who intends to make his way overland to the Indian village whilst the rest of the men conserve their strength by only travelling at night. Wanima ambushes the trooper and kills him but is wounded herself and becomes unconscious. At night the patrol discovers what happens, but Billings refuses to kill Wanima. This causes discontent amongst the patrol who have lost other members through drinking poisoned water and suicide. Wanima agrees to lead the patrol to water but leads them to an abandoned gold mine that sets the patrol to killing each other off to satisfy their greed.Dr. Ralph Harrison, a member of the new government-appointed Civil Interplanetary Flight Commission, resigns in protest against the inhumane treatment being inflicted upon spaceship pilots. His colleague Professor Nordstrom develops an alternative robot spaceman, "Tobor" , which is stolen by enemy agents. Only the scientists' psychic link with the robot can save it from being reprogrammed for evil purposes.As a truckload of war survivors stops in front of an Amsterdam factory at the end of World War II, Otto Frank gets out and walks inside. After climbing the stairs to a deserted garret, Otto finds a girl's discarded glove and sobs, then is joined and comforted by Miep Gies and Mr. Kraler, factory workers who shielded him from the Nazis. After stating that he is now all alone, Otto begins to search for the diary written by his youngest daughter; Anne Frank. Miep promptly retrieves the journal for Otto, and he receives solace reading the words written by his young daughter three years earlier: The date is July 1942, and Anne begins by chronicling the restrictions placed upon Jews that drove the Franks, into hiding over the spice factory. Sharing the Franks' hiding place are the Van Daans and their teenage son Peter. Kraler, who works in the office below, and Miep, his assistant, have arranged the hideaway and warn the families that they must maintain strict silence during daylight hours when the workers are there. On the first day, the minutes drag by in silence. After work, Kraler delivers food and a box for Anne compiled by her father, which contains her beloved photos of movie stars and a blank diary. In the first pages of the diary, Anne describes the strangeness of never being able to go outside or breathe fresh air. It states that everybody is good at heart. As the months past, Anne's irrepressible energy reasserts itself and she constantly teases Peter, whose only attachment is to his cat, Moushie. Isolated from the world outside, Otto schools Anne and Margot as the sounds of sirens and bombers frequently fill the air. Mrs. van Daan passes the time by recounting fond memories of her youth and stroking her one remaining possession, the fur coat given to her by her father. The strain of confinement causes the Van Daans to argue and pits the strong-willed Anne against her mother. One day, Kraler brings a radio to the attic, providing the families with ears onto the world. Soon after, Kraler asks them to take in another person, a Jewish dentist named Albert Dussell. When Van Daan complains that the addition will diminish their food supply, Dussell recounts the dire conditions outside, in which Jews suddenly disappear and are shipped to concentration camps. When Dussell confirms the disappearance of many of their friends, the families' hopes are dimmed. One night, Anne dreams of seeing one of her friends in a concentration camp and wakes up screaming. In October 1942, news comes of the Allied landing in Africa, but rather than producing relief, the bombing outside the factory intensifies, fraying the refugees' already ragged nerves. On Hanukkah, Margot longingly recalls past celebrations and Anne produces little presents for everyone. When Van Daan abruptly announces that Peter must get rid of Moushie because he consumes too much food, Anne protests. Their argument is cut short when they hear a prowler breaks in the front door and the room falls silent. Peter then sends an object crashing to the floor while trying to catch Moushie, and the startled thief grabs a typewriter and flees. A watchman notices the break-in and summons two Gestapo officers, who search the premises, shining their flashlights onto the bookcase that conceals the attic entrance. The families wait in terror until Moushie knocks a plate from the table and meows, reassuring the officers that the noise was caused by a common cat. After the officers leave, Otto, hoping to foster faith and courage, leads everyone in a Hanukkah song. In January 1944, Anne, on the threshold of womanhood, begins to attract Peter's attention. When Miep brings the group a cake, Dussell and Van Daan bicker over the size of their portions and then Van Daan asks Miep to sell his wife's fur coat so that he can buy cigarettes. After Kraler warns that one of his employees asked for a raise and implied that something strange is going on in the attic, Dussell dourly comments that it is just a matter of time before they are discovered. Anne, distraught, blames the adults for the war which has destroyed all sense of hope and ideals. When she storms out of the room, Peter follows and comforts her. Later, Anne confides her dreams of becoming a writer and Peter voices frustration about his inability to join the war effort. In April 1944, amid talk of liberation, the Franks watch helplessly as more Jews are marched through the streets. Tensions mount, and when Van Daan tries to steal some bread from the others, Edith denounces him and orders him to leave. As Dussell and Van Daan quarrel over food, word comes over the radio of the Normandy invasion and Van Daan breaks into tears of shame. Heartened by the news, everyone apologizes for their harsh words, and Anne dreams of being back in school by the fall. By July 1944, the invasion has bogged down and Kraler is hospitalized with ulcers. Upon hearing that the Gestapo has found the stolen typewriter, Anne writes that her diary provides her a way to go on living after her death. After the Van Daans begin to quarrel once more, Peter declares that he cannot tolerate the situation and Anne soothes him by reminding him of the goodness of those that have come to their aid. Their conversation is interrupted by the sirens of an approaching Gestapo truck. As Anne and Peter bravely stand arm in arm certain of their impending arrest, they passionately kiss. As the German soldiers break down the bookcase entrance to the hideout, Otto declares they no longer have to live in fear, but can go forward in hope. Back in the present, Otto tells Miep and Kraler that on his long journey home after his release from the concentration camp he learned how Edith, Margot and the others perished, but always held out hope that perhaps Anne had somehow survived. Otto sadly reveals that only the previous day in Rotterdam he met a woman who had been in Bergen-Belsen with Anne and confirmed her death. Otto then glances at Anne's diary and reads, "In spite of everything, I still believe that people are really good at heart," and is left in total shame.http://www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title/73083/The-Diary-of-Anne-Frank/full-synopsis.htmlWhile traveling in London, Jeffrey Buckenham , a Canadian Second World War veteran, sees Sir Mark Sebastian Loddon  on television leading a tour of his grand family home. Buckenham was held in a German POW camp with Loddon, and while watching him, becomes convinced that he is in fact another former POW, Frank Wellney, an actor . Buckenham publicly announces his suspicion that Wellney murdered Loddon during an escape from the POW camp, and has taken the young nobleman's place. Loddon sues Buckenham for libel, but his mind is still battered by some terrible incident that occurred during his escape fifteen years before, and in time even his loyal wife  begins to doubt him.In Berlin near the end of World War II, American prisoner of war Foster MacLain  escapes and is sheltered by Professor Julius Angermann . Angermann's daughter Erika  is not so welcoming, but hides the American from the soldiers looking for him. MacLain leaves when it is safe. Not long afterwards, a bomb strikes the house, killing the professor. Erika goes to live with her cousin Karl . Karl has lodgers, Fritz and Berta Graubach , who are outspoken supporters of the Nazi cause. When the Russians capture the city, Erika hides in the attic for fear of being raped. However, Berta betrays Erika's existence in order to save herself, and a drunken corporal starts up the stairs. Karl is killed trying to stop him. The Russian chases Erika out on the roof, but slips and falls to his death, and Erika is charged with his murder. Colonel Dmitri Brikett  is attracted to her and saves her life, though he expects a sexual reward. However, Erika manages to flee to the American-controlled sector of the city with the assistance of Lori , a nightclub piano player. There, she runs into the Graubachs, who now claim they always opposed the Nazis. The Graubachs insist she come stay with them. She finds out later that they are running a brothel and want to employ her. She flees, but not before they have already registered her as a prostitute with the American authorities. They pursue her, but a kindly black military policeman, Corporal Hanks ([[James Edwards , blocks them. Meanwhile, MacLain searches for his wartime benefactors, finally finding Erika working in a nightclub. When he offers to help her, she asks him to find her fiancé Hugo . MacLain uses his connections to locate Hugo and takes Erika to see him. However, she finds a very changed, embittered man – a crippled war veteran, who is living in a makeshift shelter with another woman, and who is not happy to see her with an American. Hugo asks Erica for the engagement ring back so he can buy an artificial arm to replace the one he lost in the war. She gives it to him and leaves. As MacLain spends time with Erika, he falls in love with her. He asks her to marry him and move to the United States. She accepts, but when she goes to apply for a passport, she realizes that she will be turned down because of her registration as a whore. She is about to give up, but by chance, Corporal Hanks is the man processing the applications. Remembering the circumstances of their previous meeting, he erases her "occupation" and gives her the papers she needs.The film begins with a shot of the landscape, after which it zooms in on a group of foot travelers and a porter. After walking for a while, they sit to rest, where the porter finds that this is Minamoto no Yoshitsune, Benkei, and his advisors. Their job is to cross a border checkpoint without being found, so they disguise themselves as monks.{{Expand section}} An embittered cavalry sergeant must take over his regiment after their commanding officer is killed during an ambush. Vinson is driven by his hatred of Apaches, who were responsible for the death of his wife and children. He and his remaining men, including Travis and McGurney, try to ride 100 miles to the safety of a fort. Along the way they attack an Indian band, despite being heavily outnumbered. Vinson's vengeance knows no bounds, until Travis is ultimately forced to take a stand and confront him.http://www.allmovie.com/work/fort-massacre-92126The story is about two World War II U.S. Army buddies, one a Broadway entertainer, Bob Wallace , the other a would-be entertainer, Phil Davis . It begins on Christmas Eve, 1944, somewhere in Europe. In a forward area, Capt. Wallace is giving a show to the troops of the 151st Division with the help of Pvt. Davis . But the mood is somber: word has come down that their beloved commanding officer, Major General Thomas F. Waverly , is being relieved of command. He arrives for the end of the show and delivers an emotional farewell. The men give him a rousing send-off . An enemy artillery barrage ensues, and Davis saves Wallace's life by carrying him out of the way of a toppling wall, wounding his own arm slightly in the process. Using his "wounded" arm and telling Bob he doesn't expect any "special obligation", Phil convinces Bob to join forces as an entertainment duo when the war is over. Phil using his wound to get Bob to do what he wants becomes a running gag throughout the movie. After the war, the pair make it big in nightclubs, radio and then on Broadway. Becoming successful producers, they eventually mount their newest hit musical entitled Playing Around. Phil is increasingly concerned that his pal Bob has not met a woman with whom he can settle down and several clumsy attempts to set him up with showgirls fail. In mid-December, after two years on Broadway, the show is in Miami, and while performing at the Florida Theatre, they receive a letter from "Freckle-Faced Haynes, the dog-faced boy", a mess sergeant with whom they'd been acquanted back in the war, asking them to audition his two sisters. When they go to the club to audition the act , Phil notices that Bob is smitten with Betty , while Phil has eyes for her sister, Judy . Following their number, the girls join Bob and Phil at their table, and believing he may have found the right girl for Bob, Phil brings Judy on to the dance floor so that Bob and Betty can get to know each other better. Phil and Judy hit it off , and Judy tells Phil that she and her sister are headed for the Columbia Inn in Pine Tree, Vermont, where they are booked to perform over the holidays. Back at the table, Betty reveals to Bob that Judy herself, not her brother, sent them the letter. The two get into a brittle argument, and the prospects for a romance seem doubtful.  When the girls' corrupt landlord claims the sisters burned a $200 rug and is trying to have them arrested, Phil hears the news and helps them escape out the window, giving the girls their own sleeping-room accommodations aboard the train to Vermont. To give the girls time to make it to the train, Phil convinces Bob to don the girls' forgotten costumes and lip-sync "Sisters" from a record after which the boys arrive on the same train two hours later. The girls are all over Bob in appreciation for giving up their sleeping accommodations and Phil uses "his arm" once again to convince Bob to travel with the girls to Vermont for the holidays . When everybody arrives to put on the show at the Pine Tree Ski Lodge, there's not a flake in sight and the weather is so unseasonably warm, chances of it falling appear dim. The boys discover that the inn is run by their former commanding officer, Gen. Waverly, who has invested all his savings and pension into the lodge, and it's in danger of failing because of the lack of snow and consequent lack of patrons. Deciding to help out and bring business up to the inn, Wallace and Davis bring the entire cast and crew of their new musical Playing Around, and add in Betty and Judy where they can. At the same time, Bob and Betty's relationship starts to bloom  and they begin to spend a good deal of time together. Meanwhile, Bob discovers the General's rejected attempt at rejoining the army, and decides to prove to the General that he isn't forgotten. Bob calls Ed Harrison ([[Johnny Grant , an old army buddy, now the host of a successful variety show . Bob tells Ed that he wants to make a televised pitch to all the men formerly under the command of the General, asking them to come to the inn on Christmas Eve as a surprise. In response, Harrison suggests they go all out and put the show on national television, playing up the whole "schmaltz" angle of the situation and generating lots of free advertising for Wallace and Davis in the process. What Bob doesn't know is that nosy housekeeper Emma Allen  has been listening in to the phone conversation on the extension but has only heard about the whole schmaltz suggestion, hanging up before Bob rejects the idea. Mistakenly believing that her beloved boss will be presented as a pitiable figure on a primetime coast to coast broadcast, Emma reveals what she heard to a shocked Betty who is originally loath to believe Bob would pull such a stunt for his own gain, but mistakenly comes to believe he would indeed stoop to such depths. The misunderstanding causes a now-disillusioned Betty to grow suddenly frigid to an equally-baffled Bob. Unaware of the real reason for her sudden change of behavior, Judy becomes convinced that Betty, ever-protective of her little sister, will never take on a serious relationship until Judy is engaged or married. She pressures an extremely reluctant Phil to announce a phony engagement, but the plan backfires when Betty abruptly departs for New York City, having received a job offer. Distraught, Phil and Judy reveal to Bob that the engagement announcement was phony, and Bob, still unaware of the real reason behind Betty's annoyance, heads to New York to explain. Bob goes to see Betty's new act  and reveals the truth about the engagement, but is called away by Ed Harrison before he can find out what is really bothering her. Meanwhile, back at the Inn, Phil fakes an injury to distract Gen. Waverly so he won't see the broadcast or Bob's announcement. On the broadcast, Bob proceeds to ask the veterans of the 151st Division to come to Pine Tree, Vermont, on Christmas Eve . When Betty is backstage in the greenroom between performances, she catches Bob's pitch on a television set and realizes she was mistaken. All is set right, and she returns to Pine Tree just in time for the show on Christmas Eve. Emma convinces Gen. Waverly that all his suits were sent to the cleaners, and suggests he wear his old uniform to the opening of the show. Initially reluctant, he agrees. When the General enters the lodge where the show is to take place, he is greeted by his former division, who sing a rousing chorus of "The Old Man". Just as the song ends, he is notified that snow is finally falling. In the finale, Bob and Betty declare their love for one another, as do Phil and Judy. The background of the set is removed to show the snow falling, everyone raises a glass, and toasts, "May your days be merry and bright; and may all your Christmases be white."The young Wehrmacht Lieutenant Wisse is sent to serve as a liaison officer with the Romanian Army at Stalingrad. His new commander, Major Linkmann, is a rigid officer who looks down on their allies, contrary to Wisse. Soon after his arrival, the Red Army encircles the Germans, and they retreat into the city of Stalingrad. During the flight, Linkmann tries to abandon them. Wisse convinces a sergeant to ignore the orders obliging him to burn the supply depot, thus procuring provisions for the soldiers. In Stalingrad, he is again put under Linkmann's command. The tensions between them soar while their soldiers become desperate with hunger, as the 6th Army is ordered to hold on. Wisse is nearly captured by the Soviets, but a Russian woman whom he once helped leads him back to the German lines. Eventually, Linkmann tries to surrender by himself, but is shot dead by two of his own men. When the 6th Army commander, Field Marshal Friedrich Paulus, orders the remaining German troops in Stalingrad to surrender, Wisse and his soldiers are sent to a POW camp.Klaus and Max are two poor boys from West Berlin, whose families are to poor to pay for their higher education. They face a bleak future. Their only hobby is boxing, and they are both desperate to purchase real boxing gloves. The two meet Klott, a gangster who owns a bar that serves American soldiers. Klott offers to pay them if they would assist him to steal valuable horses from a circus in East Berlin. The two agree and travel to the Soviet zone, where they meet a girl named Helli, a member of the Free German Youth, who explains to them that in the communist east, the lack of money will not bar their way to education. The two realize the error of their ways, contact the People's Police and help the officers hinder Klott's plans and arrest the other thieves working for him. The two remain in East Berlin.Just after Sigurd Helmer  is ordained a bishop, his archrival Tornkvist  hands over a letter to the police claiming Helmer obtained his position through foul play. A power struggle between the two ensues which has serious implications for Helmer. The letter proves that Helmer has slandered his competitor Tornkvist in anonymous letters. Tornkvist reveals his accusations at at the inaugural dinner at the bishop's home. At the same time he announces his engagement to the bishop's daughter, Agnes , who then sides with him against her own father. Tornkvist and Agnes leave and the party breaks up in bewilderment. Helmer is left with his wife who is torn between her love for her husband and her Christian faith. She wants him to accept responsibility like a true Christian. Eventually it emerges that it was Helmer's secretary who had written the letters. The secretary writes a confession and tries to commit suicide.An unseen narrator  tells the story of a Dixieland-music loving dog named John Irving Pettybone (Droopy, voice of [[Bill Thompson . Pettybone's one love is listening to a record of Dixieland jazz, specifically "Tiger Rag", and pretending to conduct the music. Unfortunately, the manager of the dump where Pettybone lives is not a fan of Dixieland, and he evicts the hapless dog from the dump. Pettybone travels to several locations  in an attempt to play his music, but is thrown out each time. Pettybone is heartbroken when his LP is accidentally smashed, but his luck changes when he picks up a group of fleas, "Pee Wee Runt and his All-Flea Dixieland Band". He is chased by the owner of a flea circus into a theatrical agent's office, who mistakenly believes that Pettybone is making the music himself. Pettybone becomes famous as "John Pettybone, Dog of Mystery", and realizes his dream of playing the Hollywood Bowl. As the cartoon concludes with a close up of the flea circus band, the narrator states that no one ever discovered the secret to Pettybone's music cause only Pee Wee Runt knew and would never tell as he, the trumpeter, reveals "for you see, he, that flea, Pee Wee, is me! See?"The Stooges hope to collect a reward by proving to museum curator B. Bopper  that cavemen indeed still exist. They embark on an expedition with 16mm camera in hand, ready to film whatever they find. Eventually, the Stooges return to Bopper with a film showing three cavemen living in the prehistoric age. The film illustrates the three tending to their daily chores, consisting of mixing milk, hunting fish, and gathering eggs. The film also shows the three cavemen defending their women from other fellow cavemen. Bopper is ecstatic, and is preparing to cut the Stooges a check. However, Bopper overhears the sneaky stooges talking about how the film was a hoax, as they played the cavemen themselves. The curator is furious, and promptly shoots the three frauds in their derrieres, before shooting himself in the foot.After a fatal car crash in Lordsburg, New Mexico, investigators find a mysterious machine component that they turn over to the nearby Los Alamos National Laboratory for identification. Scientists there declare that it is one component of an advanced portable nuclear weapon designed by an unknown, presumably hostile power. The discovery prompts Paul Reagan , chief of the Security Investigation Division , to send agent John Williams ([[John Ireland  to investigate the source of these components and to prevent them from being assembled into a functioning weapon. As more parts are smuggled into the United States, the investigation expands and a pattern begins to emerge which points to Marseilles, France. After uranium is found welded to the hull of a U.S. Navy submarine in New London, Connecticut, Williams continues his investigation aboard that submarine, now bound for the French port, undercover as a naval officer preparing a training film. While in Marseilles, he learns that civilians Margo Wayne  and her husband Leo Wayne ([[Peter Marshall  are working with clarinet player Buzz Olin  and an unknown member of the submarine's crew to smuggle the parts in special metal cases built by Pierre Neff . After a fight near the dock, Williams believes that Lt. Magrew  and Commander Jackson  are in on the plot. He orders them arrested, only to be betrayed by his colleague, agent Andy ([[Robert Hunter , and taken into custody himself. Arriving in Washington, D.C., Williams escapes from his captors and contacts Reagan at SID headquarters where he finds Jackson and Magrew waiting for him in Reagan's office. The whole exercise was a war game, put on in secret by the Defense Department to test the nation's readiness for a subversive attack. However, the Waynes and Olin are not part of the war game. They have used Neff to construct 4 cases, in addition to the 48 ordered by the naval officers, and smuggled their own portable nuclear weapon into the United States. With less than 48 hours before the bomb's scheduled detonation at 3&nbsp;p.m. on Tuesday, Williams and his team track Buzz Olin and the Waynes to the San Francisco area. After a desperate attempt to escape with the bomb and destroy San Francisco by air, Leo Wayne is killed and Jackson has just two hours to attempt to defuse the bomb while Williams flies towards Nevada. This fails and with less than a minute to go the bomb is dropped from the plane to detonate over Frenchman Flat at the Nevada Test Site. Crisis averted, the film ends with the narrator intoning, "...and three o'clock is just the middle of another afternoon in the life of a city."In 1943, Dave , an officer, and Jim , escape from separate prison camps and are paired together by the underground. They are taken to Marseilles by a fishing boat captain to wait for the right opportunity to try for England. While they wait, local woman Lise  falls in love with Dave. He is attracted to her, but is engaged. Meanwhile, Emile Blanchard  refers those desperate to leave France to "Dr." Martout , unaware that his associate is a serial killer who grows rich from his crimes.  Jewish undertaker Schlip and ex-Vichy official Bourdin  become his latest victims. Given an ultimatum by his displeased superiors to do something about the French Resistance, the German military commander of the city decides to evacuate and demolish the crime-infested Old Quarter, where Dave and Jim are hiding, with only two hours warning. Dave wants to wait for the fishing captain, but Jim chooses to try Dr. Martout. When the captain does show up, Dave goes to fetch Jim, barely saving him from becoming Martout's 100th victim. Martout escapes in his car, but in his haste, crashes and is killed. With buildings blowing up right and left, the pair make their way, with Lise's help, to the boat and freedom. Aboard the boat, Dave and Lise embrace.In England, Professor Harrington  approaches Dr. Julian Karswell , the leader of a satanic cult, promising to call off an investigation of the cult if Karswell will call off "what he has started". Karswell says that he will do all that he can. After learning that a parchment given to Harrington has disintegrated, he ushers Harrington out. After Harrington arrives at his home, a demon materialises in the woods and approaches Harrington. Fleeing in his car, Harrington crashes into a telegraph pole, which apparently causes falling power lines to electrocute him. Dr. John Holden  arrives in England to attend a convention where Harrington had intended to expose Karswell's cult. Holden is informed of Harrington's death and that the only link between it and Karswell's cult is an accused murderer, Rand Hobart , who has fallen into a catatonic stupor. While Harrington's collaborators consider the possibility of supernatural forces, Holden rejects the idea as superstition. Following Harrington's notes, Holden visits the British Museum's library to examine books on witchcraft. A book Harrington requests is discovered to be missing. He is approached by Karswell, who offers to show Holden his own copy at his mansion. At Harrington's funeral, Holden meets the dead man's niece, Joanna , who provides him with Harrington's diary. The diary reveals Harrington's increasing fear of Karswell's power. Holden remains sceptical, but goes with Joanna to Karswell's mansion the next day.  There, Holden and Karswell mock one another's beliefs. A very strong windstorm abruptly starts, which Karswell claims to have created with a spell. When Holden continues to mock him, Karswell grows angry and predicts that Holden will die in three days. {{listen}} At his hotel, Holden and his colleagues discuss Karswell and make plans to further examine Rand Hobart. Harrington's diary mentions the parchment passed to him by Karswell; Holden finds a parchment with runic inscriptions, that Karswell secretly passed to him at the library. Powerful winds come through the window, blowing the parchment from his fingers. It nearly burns in the fireplace before Holden rescues and pockets it. Holden begins to feel more uneasy after a visit to Hobart's family, who disowned Hobart as "not a true believer". As Holden leaves, the parchment flies from his hand again. Hobart's family become fearful and declare Holden to be "chosen". Holden compares the parchment's runes to ones inscribed on the nearby stone circle at Stonehenge. Joanna takes Holden to Karswell's mother , who has arranged a seance. The medium begins to channel Harrington, who tells them that Karswell has the key to the problem from his book. Holden leaves, dismissive towards both the medium and Mrs. Karswell. That night, Holden breaks into Karswell's mansion to examine the book. He is caught by Karswell, but is permitted to leave. Holden leaves through the woods and finds himself being chased by a living ball of smoke. On escaping from the forest, Holden finds that the phenomenon has vanished. He reports the event to the police but feels embarrassed, believing that he is falling for Karswell's mindgames. Mrs. Karswell telephones Joanna, imploring her to tell Holden that Rand Hobart knows the secret of the parchment. "All this evil must end, Miss Harrington!", she says, as her son Julian appears and overhears her betrayal. While Holden prepares an experiment to break Hobart's stupor, Karswell kidnaps Joanna to prevent her reaching Holden with the message. Under hypnosis, Hobart reveals that he was "chosen" to die by having a parchment with a curse passed to him, but avoided death by passing it to another person. When Holden shows Hobart the parchment he received from Karswell, Hobart goes berserk and throws himself from a window to his death. Informed that Karswell is leaving London by train, Holden, convinced now that he must return the parchment to Karswell to save himself, races to catch it. He finds Karswell with Joanna. Karswell avoids any contact with Holden to guard against the parchment being passed back to him and grows increasingly fearful. When the train stops at the next station, Karswell tries to leave, but Holden manages to sneak the parchment into his coat. As Karswell realises this, the parchment flies from his hands. He chases it down to the tracks, where the parchment burns to ashes. As an oncoming train approaches, a demon appears above it, seizes Karswell, and slashes him, tossing his body onto the tracks. The station crew find his mangled body and believe that he was struck by the train.Colonel Carrington  and his command are assigned the job of constructing a chain of forts in the Sioux Indian territory of Wyoming during the 1880s. The Colonel recruits former cavalry soldiers turned frontier scouts Jim Bridger  and "Dakota Jack" Gaines , now running a Wild West Show, to head the fort building. Bridger and Gaines are friendly with Sioux chief Red Cloud  but have reservations about the chief's 2nd in command, Afraid of Horses . Both Bridger and Gaines are confident a peace treaty with the Sioux can be made. However, if war breaks out, the cavalry is depending on getting a new type of breech loading Springfield Model 1865 rifle. Gaines, Mrs. Gaines , and Bridger arrive at the fort for the conference. Gaines gets drunk and attempts to intimidate the Indians into signing a treaty. Chief Red Fox threatens war if his territory is invaded by any troops building forts.Young drifter Axel Nordmann  arrives at the waterfront on the west side of Manhattan, seeking employment as a longshoreman, and giving his name as "Alex North." He goes to work in a gang of stevedores headed by Charlie Malik  a vicious bully, and is befriended by Tommy Tyler , who also supervises a stevedore gang. Malik resents blacks in positions of authority, and is antagonized when Axel goes to work for Tommy. Axel moves into Tommy's neighborhood and becomes friends with Tommy's wife Lucy  and becomes romantically involved with her friend Ellen . Tommy serves as a mentor to Axel, urging him to stand up to Malik, and that if he does he will be "ten feet tall." It is apparent from the start that Axel is hiding something, and it emerges that he is a deserter from the United States Army. Malik is aware of that, and is extorting money from him. Malik frequently tries to provoke Tommy and Axel into fights, with Tommy coming to Axel's aid. Malik finally provokes Tommy into a fight, with both men using their baling hooks. Tommy at one point disarms Malik and implores him to stop, but Malik seizes the hook and kills him. The police investigation is stymied by lack of cooperation from the longshoremen, including Axel. But after meeting with the distraught Lucy, who accuses him of never being Tommy's friend, Axel finally decides to cooperate. He goes to Malik to tell him that. They get into a fight, and in the end, though beaten, Axel strangles Malik unconscious and drags him away.After a new government law forbids women to operate heavy machinery in steel factories, a group of female workers that is determined to lift the ban proposes a competition to their male counterparts: those who will produce the greatest quantity of steel will win. The men are certain that they will be victorious. One of them, Ernst Hollup, is angered by his wife's involvement with the other team, and he demands that she will resign and become a housewife. The women develop a wagon that carries the molten iron to the steel furnace and greatly simplifies their work. They win the competition, as well as the respect of the men. The government lifts the ban.Army medical officer Tom Owen returns home to Coalville, Pennsylvania. He learns his brother Floyd, a mine safety engineer killed in an explosion, might have been negligent in his duty and is heavily in debt to a man named Dan Reasonover. Twice divorced Helen Curtis, who is Dan's daughter, asks Tom for a date. He is warned about her, but can't resist. Knowing that Tom has vowed to pay his late brother's debts, Helen persuades him to accept a position at a Pittsburgh clinic run by a Dr. Gleeson. New nurse Joan Lasher is disappointed that Tom treats wealthy society patients for minor ailments when he could be doing more good elsewhere. She is impressed by his idealistic Army acquaintance, Dr. Jim Crowley, who is concerned with the health of people more in need. Emergency surgery is needed for Helen's rich aunt. Her physician, Gleeson, pleads with Tom to perform the operation for him. Tom does, unethically, and Joan quits as his nurse. Helen's aunt offers a $10,000 reward, which Gleeson offers to split. In another mine explosion, Joan and Jim are trapped. Tom arrives in time to rescue them, but Jim dies in the ambulance. He resigns from the clinic and Helen leaves him, but Joan now stands by his side.Mark Sherwin  is driving in the country when he notices a man laying at the side of the road. Assuming the man is the victim of a hit-and-run, he stops to offer assistance, only to be coshed and left stunned while his wallet and car are stolen. On recovering his senses, he staggers towards a nearby farmhouse where he collapses. He is found by the farm owner, who summons a doctor. Meanwhile the car thief comes to grief while speeding round a corner on a clifftop road, the car plunges over the edge and explodes in flames. Sherwin regains consciousness, but is suffering from complete amnesia with no idea of his own identity or how he came to be found in such a remote location. The farm owner and his daughter agree to look after Sherwin while he recuperates. The police investigate missing persons reports but find no case to match Sherwin's age and physical description. Some days later Sherwin is on the mend, and happens to find in his overcoat pocket a ticket stub from a theatre in a town some 50 miles away. Hoping to find some clue as to his identity, he takes a train to the town and walks the streets to see whether anything will jog his memory. He comes across a house which he seems to recognise and walks in through the unlocked door. Inside he finds a flower-covered coffin in the front room. A woman  enters and on seeing Sherwin, screams and faints. This jolts Sherwin's memory back into gear and he recognises the woman as his wife Christine, who has believed him dead since there was no reason for anybody to consider that the body found in the burned-out car was not his. Sherwin is bothered by his wife's odd demeanour, particularly her excessive concern about whether or not anybody could have seen him in the street or arriving at the house. His suspicions aroused, he decides to continue to play the amnesiac. Saying he is going upstairs to rest, he eavesdrops on her telephone calls and soon realises that she is speaking to a lover of some time standing, the gist of the conversation being the need to dispose of Sherwin quickly before anyone else finds out that he was not the crash victim. Gradually, he finds out that Christine and her lover  had been intending to sell the house and cash all his assets, and his inconvenient reappearance has derailed their plans. Aware now of Christine's true colours, he decides to play along with her schemes until he can engineer a suitable come-uppance for the pair.Clint Tollinger arrives in town, and is recognized as the "man in grey", a gun for hire who had a reputation for cleaning up other towns. After 14 killings in a year are followed by a night shooting and the burning of a house under construction, and the town marshall tells the town council he's not sure what can be done, the council hires Tollinger as their new "town tamer". The marshall deputizes Tollinger, then tells him he is on his own. Tollinger begins by warning two known gunmen to leave town. He then begins to disarm everyone in the town. Then in an unseen confrontation he kills the two gunmen he'd previously warned to leave town. A group of gunmen shoots up a poster warning of the gun ordnance at the edge of town. As they ride in, they yell that they are looking for Tollinger. Forewarned by the shots, he gets the drop on them from the loft of the town stable with a rifle. He orders them to drop their guns and they do so. One trades small talk with him while reaching for a derringer in his hat, but Tollinger shoots him. At a social event, one of the town women advises Tollinger that his job won't be finished until the dance hall girls also leave town. She criticizes them for dancing and carrying on, unaware that Tollinger is an old friend to the madam who manages them. But not all is well in their relationship. When Tollinger warns Nelly Bain that her girls also have a curfew, she replies that she knows what happens in a "Tollinger-tamed town". She tells him she and the girls will be moving on further west, and asks him for suggestions. She asks for the name of any town where he won't be. But there's a hidden history between the two of them, and everything isn't what it seems. Two gunmen from a large cattle spread ride into town to tell Tollinger that they've detained Jeff Castle for trying to build a house on disputed land. They appear to have set a trap, inviting Tollinger to the ranch to pick him up, where they will have the advantage. Tollinger arrests the two for carrying guns in town. Some of the town's citizens suddenly have second thoughts, worrying that others from the ranch will come in and shoot up the town. But the arrest proves a good tactical move; the other ranch hands deliver Castle into town, trading him for the two prisoners. Nelly Bain tells Tollinger something she's kept from him since he arrived in town, that their daughter had died, and Tollinger takes it badly. His patience and calm demeanor suddenly gone, he resolves to clean up the town the quick and dirty way; he burns the saloon, which is owned by Dade Holman, the cattleman who had sent the gunmen. Holman sets up a trap for Tollinger, and rides into town in a surrey to see that it works. Tollinger kills his assailant but is shot by Holman. Castle shoots Holman, and at the end Nelly and Tollinger  kiss and are reconciled.Family man Gene Courtier makes the mistake of picking up a hitch-hiker, Victor Gosset, a wanted criminal. Gosset and his accomplices, Robert Batsford and Luther Logan, take Courtier and his family captive in their home at gunpoint. They demand that Courtier sell the car in the morning and hand over the money. With police closing in, the gang refuses to leave. Courtier's father is a wealthy man, so the robbers now want a large sum in ransom. Courtier gets the best of them eventually, however, with all three of his kidnapers ending up dead.Junior Jackson  is the nerdy son of a former All-American football hero, Jarring Jack Jackson . His mother  is another former star athlete, having been a champion Olympic swimmer. Junior is something of a disappointment to his father, who has a difficult time understanding how two athletes could produce such a weakling. Junior is more interested in animal husbandry than sports, but his father has other plans. In exchange for free tuition to college, Bill Baker  makes a deal with Jarring Jack to turn his son into a football star. Junior somehow makes the team, in addition to falling for beautiful co-ed Terry Howard . He is too shy to talk to her, however, so she winds up falling for Bill. Some misadventures follow, including Junior scoring a touchdown—for the opposite team. To keep up the ruse , Bill and Terry continue to support Junior and build his new-found confidence. Junior confides to Bill that he intends to marry Terry, so a guilt-ridden Bill gets drunk and makes a scene at Terry's dorm. As a result, he is expelled. Junior, finding out the truth about Bill and Terry, is determined to make things right. He goes on to win the big game single-handedly and lives up to his father's expectations, who proudly exclaims, "That's my boy!"Korean War veteran Lucas Doolin  works in the family moonshine business— delivering the illegal liquor his father distills to clandestine distribution points throughout the south in his souped-up hot rod. However, Lucas has more problems than evading the U.S. Treasury agents , led by determined newcomer Troy Barrett . Lucas is concerned that his younger brother Robin , who is also his mechanic, will be tempted into following in his footsteps and becoming a moonshine runner. A well-funded outside gangster, Carl Kogan , tries to gain control of the independent local moonshine producers and their distribution points, and is willing to kill anyone who stands in his way. The stakes rise when an attempt by Kogan to kill Lucas results in the death of a government agent as well as another moonshine driver. In a romantic subplot, Lucas becomes involved with nightclub singer Francie Wymore . He is unaware one of the neighbor girls, Roxanna Ledbetter ([[Sandra Knight , has a crush on him and fears for his life. When a series of government raids destroy their hidden stills, Lucas' father and the other local moonshines shut down production "for a spell" to let the government deal with Kogan in its own time, but Lucas is forced by circumstances and his own code of honor to make a final run.  The film was based loosely on an incident in which a driver transporting moonshine was said to have crashed to his death on Kingston Pike in Knoxville, Tennessee between Bearden Hill and Morrell Road. Per Metro Pulse writer Jack Renfro, the incident occurred in 1952 and may have been witnessed by James Agee, who passed the story on to Mitchum.Roger Bradley  is the son the owner of a milk company. He wants to get a job as a milkman at his father's company, but his father denies it because of Roger's after-war trauma: when he gets stressed or frustrated, he quacks like a duck. Roger gets upset at his father and does not see any problem with the quacking. In revenge, he gets a job with his father's arch-rival, Breezy Albright  at another milk company. He becomes very successful and quickly falls in love with the boss's daughter, Chris Abbott .After a prison stretch for jewel robbery, three beautiful women search for a pearl necklace the police never found. Unfortunately for them, the warehouse where they hid it was sold for back storage fees to three furniture repairmen, Moe, Larry and Shemp. As the boys set about the task of fixing and pricing various pieces of furniture, Shemp stumbles upon the necklace and keeps it for himself, despite Larry and Moe dismissing them as a "string of beads." The girls follow the Stooges to their shop, and pretend to flirt with them as a distraction, so they can search the shop for the necklace, resulting in the desecration of a chair. Shemp, convinced that the pearls are fake, tries to give the necklace to the girls, but the molls' gangster ex-boyfriends are hot on their trail and track them down to the shop, demanding the necklace. Slapstick mayhem ensues when the Stooges come to the girls' defense, resulting in a six-man hand-to-hand brawl that ends in a large box full of stuffing. In the end, Shemp successfully lands blows on the head with an iron to the three gangsters, knocking them out cold. The girls run to their sides and decide there and then to give the pearls back to the rightful owners and disavow their criminal ways.Shortly after moving to Los Angeles with his parents, 17-year-old Jim Stark  enrolls at Dawson High School. Jim is brought into the police station for public drunkenness. When his mother, father and grandmother arrive at the police station to retrieve him, conflicts in Jim's family situation are introduced. His parents are often fighting; his father  often tries to defend Jim, but Jim's mother always wins the arguments. Jim feels betrayed both by this fighting and his father's lack of moral strength, causing feelings of unrest and displacement. This shows up later in the film when he repeatedly asks his father, "What do you do when you have to be a man?" While trying to conform with fellow students at the school, he becomes involved in a dispute with a local bully named Buzz Gunderson . While he tries to deal with Buzz, he becomes friends with a 15-year-old boy, John, nicknamed Plato , who was also at the police station the night of the opening scene for shooting puppies. Plato idolizes Jim, his real father having abandoned his family. Plato experiences many of the same problems as Jim, such as searching for meaning in life and dealing with parents who "don't understand." Jim meets Judy , whom he also recognizes from the police station, where she was brought in for being out alone after dark. She originally seems unimpressed by Jim, saying in a sarcastic tone, "I bet you're a real yo-yo." She is apparently the property of Buzz. Jim goes on a field trip to the Griffith Observatory. There he sees a dramatic presentation of the violent death of the universe. After the show, he watches as the thugs slash a tire of his car; then Buzz challenges him to a knife fight, in which Jim is loathe to take part until the gang taunts Jim as a "chicken" . Jim reluctantly takes part in the fight and wins, subduing Buzz by holding his switchblade up to his neck. Both Jim and Buzz receive slight injuries while fighting. The thugs challenge Jim to a "Chickie Run" with Buzz, racing stolen cars towards an abyss. The first one who jumps out of the car loses and is deemed the "chicken". The "game" ends in tragedy for Buzz when a strap on the sleeve of his leather jacket becomes looped over a handle on the car door, preventing him from jumping out before the car goes over the cliff. Jim tries to tell his parents what happened, but becomes frustrated by their failure to understand him and storms out of the house. When Jim is seen trying to go to the police by some of Buzz's friends, they decide to hunt him down, and harass Plato and Jim's family to try to find him. Judy and Jim go to an abandoned mansion; Plato finds them there . There they act out a "fantasy family," with Jim as father, Judy as mother and Plato as child. The thugs soon discover them, and Plato brandishes his mother's gun, shooting one of the boys, and shooting at Jim and a police officer, in a clearly unstable state. Plato hides in the Observatory, which is soon besieged by the police. Jim and Judy follow him inside, and Jim convinces Plato to lend him the gun, from which he silently removes the ammunition magazine. When Plato steps out of the observatory, he becomes agitated again at the sight of the police and charges forward, brandishing his weapon. He is fatally shot by a police officer as Jim yells to the police, too late, that he had already removed the bullets. Plato was wearing Jim's jacket at the time, and as a result, Jim's parents  think at first that Jim was shot. Mr. Stark then runs to comfort Jim, openly weeping for Plato's death. Mr. Stark promises to be a stronger father, one that his son can depend on. Thus reconciled, Jim introduces Judy to his parents.{{Expand section}} The film is a drama set in World War II, following a group of United States Marines from boot camp to combat. It depicts the details of the training, the forming of comradeship and the relentless training of the battalion, led by Major "High Pockets" Huxley, has to undergo. In two battles , the battalion is only used in mop-up duties, but after an out-of-line argument between "High Pockets" and the commanding general, they are used as lead battalion in the final battle in Saipan, hitting Red Beach with severe casualties. Beside describing the battalion's everyday activities, the movie also details the private lives of three of the Marines on R'n'R in New Zealand.New York Police Sergeant John Kennedy once guarded Abraham Lincoln for 48 hours while he was campaigning for President of the United States, and came away deeply impressed by the man. Kennedy has infiltrated a cabal and discovered that an assassination attempt will be made as the president-elect makes his way by train via Baltimore to Washington, DC. His boss, Superintendent Simon G. Stroud , dismisses the threat as "hogwash", as does Caleb Jeffers , a militia colonel with whom Stroud is meeting. Kennedy resigns on the spot to try to foil the conspirators on his own. Having already sent a copy of his report to the Secretary of War, he telegrams Lincoln, urgently requesting a meeting in Baltimore. On February 22, 1861, he boards the Night Flyer Express train bound for Baltimore and Washington, where Inspector Reilly  is to give him his train ticket. However, Kennedy cannot find his friend. Without a ticket, he is forced to get off by conductor Homer Crowley , and there are no more tickets to be had. As the train starts pulling away, Jeffers sprints aboard anyway. Among the other passengers are Mrs. Charlotte Alsop , an anti-slavery writer; Lance Beaufort , a soldier from Georgia who plans to resign and enlist in the Confederate army; his sister Ginny ; and their slave Rachel . After much searching, Kennedy finally discovers Reilly's body on the exterior platform of a car, but the corpse slips off the train as he is reaching for it. When he returns to what should have been his berth, he finds an imposter  claiming to be him and in possession of his ticket. The conductor is summoned. Fellow passenger Jeffers vouches for Kennedy and gives him a spare ticket to share his compartment. The imposter forces Kennedy off the train at gunpoint at the next stop, planning to kill him when the train whistle sounds. Kennedy manages to grapple with him. The commotion attracts Jeffers' attention, and the colonel shoots and kills the conspirator. When they reboard, Jeffers offers Kennedy first use of the only bed in their compartment. After Kennedy appears to be dozing, Jeffers steals the derringer he had loaned the ex-policeman and shoots him. Fortunately, Kennedy had become suspicious  and tampered with the bullet. Jeffers confesses he is in the plot in order to protect his shares in Northern cotton mills, which would be adversely affected by war. At the next stop, Kennedy tries to have Jeffers arrested, but Jeffers obtains confirmation by telegram from Stroud that Kennedy is no longer a police officer, and it is Kennedy who is taken into custody by Lieutenant Coulter . Rachel tries to give Kennedy an urgent message, but is brushed off by Coulter. Kennedy manages to escape and get back on the train. Meanwhile, the exasperated conductor is ordered to hold the train until a special package is delivered. Passenger Mrs. Gibbons  meets and takes aboard her ailing husband. Kennedy runs into Rachel, who informs him that Beaufort is getting off at Baltimore, not Atlanta as he had claimed. He is taken prisoner by Beaufort and tied up in Jeffers' compartment. The plotters are disappointed, however, when they receive news that Lincoln has cancelled his speech at Baltimore, where Beaufort was to assassinate him. Jeffers gets off, but as the train is pulling away, he remembers Mrs. Gibbons; he surmises her "husband" is actually Lincoln in disguise. Running after the train, he manages to alert Beaufort. Kennedy, however, frees himself and, in the ensuing struggle, sends the would-be assassin tumbling from the speeding train. Afterward, Mrs. Gibbons tells Kennedy that she is an undercover Pinkerton agent, and that his report to the War Department was read by Allan Pinkerton, who persuaded Lincoln to cancel his speech and travel incognito.Federal marshal Len Merrick  and his two deputies rescue cattle rustler and murder suspect Tim "Pop" Keith  from a lynch mob headed by grieving rancher Ned Roden , whose beloved son was shot in the back. Merrick insists on taking Keith to Santa Loma to stand trial. The other ranchers are unwilling to go against a marshal, but Roden vows to administer his own brand of justice. He sends his other son, Dan , to gather his ranch hands while he attends to the burial. Merrick offers to help, but is met with implacable hostility. After Roden leaves, Merrick finds a pocket watch. Keith suggests that they spend the night at his home, as it is nearby. Merrick accepts, but has cause to regret his decision when Keith's daughter Ann  ambushes them. Fortunately, Merrick is able to disarm her with no harm done. When they leave, Ann decides to go with them. After he is warned of Roden's intentions by fellow ranchers, Merrick decides to take an unexpected desert route, where he can see if he is being trailed. The ploy fails, however, and the party is overtaken by Roden and his men. In the ensuing gunfight, Merrick's best friend and deputy, Billy Shear , is wounded. Merrick forces Roden to go away by capturing his son Dan. As they travel on, Billy dies. Merrick and Ann start falling in love. The marshal reveals that his unswerving devotion to duty is because the one time he neglected it, it cost his father his life. He was a deputy to his marshal father, and refused to help escort two prisoners. All three were lynched. Ann sympathizes, but warns him that her first loyalty is to her father. Meanwhile, Dan convinces the remaining deputy, Lou Gray , to help him escape by the bribe of a ranch. When the group reaches a waterhole, only to find the water undrinkable, a disagreement breaks out. All but Merrick want to head to a river half a day to the south. Worried because the river is on the Mexican border, Merrick insists on continuing on to Santa Loma. Gray quickly draws his gun, but Merrick is faster on the draw and shoots it out of his hand. Now, he has three prisoners. After two days without sleep, an exhausted Merrick drops from his horse. Keith grabs his gun, but is unwilling to shoot. When Gray goes for his rifle, Keith kills him, then hands the gun back to Merrick. Keith is tried in Santa Loma. Merrick tells the jury that he is sure Keith is not a killer, but all the evidence and witnesses are against him, and a guilty verdict is reached. However, just before Keith is to be hanged, Merrick notices that the watch he found has an inscription to Dan. Confronted with the proof that he killed his own brother, Dan draws his revolver and grabs Ann as a shield. When his father approaches him, Dan kills him and tries to flee on horseback, but is shot in the back, just like his brother, by Merrick.Sach inherits a farm and they boys travel to it. They discover that their neighbors are the Smiths, who have feuded with the Joneses, of which Sach is one. They keep Sach's identity secret, and become friends with them. A gang of bank robbers arrive and hide out in the boys house. The Smiths arrive and, thinking the robbers names are Jones, begin shooting at them. The law arrives and takes the criminals away, but Slip accidentally says he is "Mr. Jones" and the Smiths begin shooting at him!The film tells the story of bank teller Mike Donovan  who failed to report a $49,000 shortage from his drawer. He's accused of theft and quickly fired from his job. He is then prevented from finding other employment by insurance investigator Gus Slavin , who is convinced Donovan took the money. Despite many setbacks, Donovan tries to clear his name but even his wife  doesn't think that he'll be able to do it. Turns out the money was heisted by a phony bank examiner and his mole working at the bank .The plot is very close to the original play and 1928 movie. Racketeer and mobster Nick Scanlon  has managed to buy several of the local government and law-enforcement officials of a large midwestern American city. However, he can't seem to touch the incorruptible police captain Tom McQuigg , who refuses all attempts at bribery. The city’s prosecuting attorney, Welch , and a police detective, Turk , are crooked and make McQuigg's job as an honest officer nearly impossible. McQuigg persuades a sexy nightclub singer  to testify against Scanlon which makes her marked for death from the mob. McQuigg not only wants to nail Scanlon, but also stop all the mob corruption in the city -- without getting himself or his witness killed.In May 1950, Major Matt Brady is redeployed to Pusan, South Korea. His mission there is to train South Korean pilots in the defensive struggle. Also, there are air support exercises in case of the need to evacuate the Americans. Colonel Schuller sends Brady and Captain MacIntyre to the airbase in Kungju. The American instructors only have 25 days left to introduce the South Korean pilots to US tactics. At the base, Brady meets Donna Cottrell, a former fiancé of his. Donna's husband, Red Cross physician Dr. Stephen Cottrell, is said to have been killed in action. When Donna finds out that he is actually alive - he had been captured, but was able to escape - she returns to him. She tells Matt, that Stephen cannot work as a surgeon any more, as his hands were badly injured during enemy torture. She is intent to do the right thing, but she feels torn apart between the two men. The training of the South Korean pilots makes progress, which is carefully noticed by Dixon, a reporter. Captain Veddors tells him, that Matt does not fly any more because he had caused a deadly crash with a test pilot. Matt receives an encrypted message announcing a serious enemy attack. MacIntyre informs Matt, that Lieutenant Kim-Sun is not able to fly due to the illness of his sister. But Matt needs every man, Kim-Sun dies in the crash of his plane. As a consequence, the pilots raise grave reproaches against Matt. MacIntyre suspects, that Kim-Sun's plane has been sabotaged. Colonel Schuller orders the evacuation of all Americans and gives Matt the order, to release the South Korean pilots into active service. Stephen stays behind in Kungju to carry on his work, Donna leaves the base in a convoy. The convoy is attacked by two tanks. Colonel Conners cautions Matt, that air support for the convoy is out of the question. But by sanction of the UN, intervention by US infantrymen was possible.Matt stays behind on the base with Veddors and MacIntyre. Soon the news of the invasion of South Korea arrive. Captain Warnowski and his infantry battailon reach Kungju. Of originally 400 men, only 30 remain, due to heavy tank assaults. The infantrymen found wounded Captain Wyler and picked him up. Wyler had been driving the truck Donna was on. Before he dies, he can tell Matt about Donna's successful escape. As the attacks increase in gravity, North Korean airplanes damage the airfield. Matt and Warnowski agree to retreat. South Koreans identify an old woman as a spy, who has been transmitting information about the base to the enemy by radio and execute her. Matt and his remaining troop come under heavy fire. Matt's arm is wounded, Veddors is killed. In the villange of Chungtu, they reach a Red Cross hospital, and soon Donna arrives there, too. There she hears, that Stephen was killed during the fighting. The enemy tanks thrust forward and force the survivors to retreat further. Only as US planes attack and stop the tanks, Matt, Donna and the rest of the convoy can escape.American David Ross , a sergeant in the Canadian army, is hastily promoted and assigned to command one of the Royal Navy's slow, poorly-armed tugboats, which bring in freighters crippled near England by German attacks. The main danger is from U-boats and aircraft. David is pleased to be reunited with an old friend, Captain Chris Ford . Chris takes him out on a mission, then brings him home to his flat to meet his lover Stella . She had been engaged to Philip, another tugboat captain, but he was killed the day before their wedding. Knowing the extreme danger of his job, Philip had given a copy of his key to the flat to another officer, Van Barger , so that Stella would be taken care of no matter what. Van Barger moved in. Then, continuing the tradition, he gave a key to Chris. When Chris chooses David to be the next in line, David tries to refuse, but his friend is insistent. Stella accepts Chris's marriage proposal. However, she has a premonition that he won't be coming back from his next mission. She is proved correct. At first, David refuses to move in, but eventually does so. To his surprise, she does not share his bed immediately, but as time goes by, Stella falls in love with him, unlike the others. She puts away her photograph of Philip, gets rid of the uniforms of David's predecessors, and takes off her wedding ring. She also leaves her flat for the first time since Philip was killed. Finally, she asks David to marry her and he gladly accepts. With the U.S. entry into the war, an American freighter becomes David's next assignment. The inexperienced crew sends out a continuous S.O.S., contrary to sealed orders, revealing the ship's position to the enemy. When David finds out the situation, he tries unsuccessfully to refuse what amounts to a suicide mission. Just as he is about to depart, another tugboat returns. Knowing his chances, he gives his key to its captain, Kane . David's tug is attacked by a U-boat and set afire. He orders the crew to abandon ship, then rams the submarine. After being rescued, David hurries back to the flat, but Kane is already there, having told Stella that David was killed. When she sees him alive, she screams at him to get out, hurt to the core by his betrayal in passing on the key. Later, Kane finds David drinking his sorrows away and informs him that Stella is leaving for London on the train. There were two endings filmed; in one, David gets aboard, while in the other, he just misses catching it, but insists he will search for and find her.Marshal Mac Bovard, known as the Hangman for his success at seeing guilty men die for their crimes, rounds up three of four outlaws suspected in a robbery that resulted in the murder of his brother. Two are hanged. The third is needed to identify John Butterfield, whose face Mac has never seen. Butterfield's former girlfriend, Selah Jennison, works at Fort Kenton doing laundry. She refuses to help Mac, even when he offers a $500 reward. Butterfield had been there for her after the death of her husband, so she remains loyal to him. A freight driver, Johnny Bishop, could be the man Mac is looking for, but kindly sheriff Buck Weston warns him that Bishop's one of the most well-liked men in town. Selah comes to warn the married and respectable Bishop, who swears that he merely watched the outlaws' horses, not knowing they were pulling a holdup. After he persuades Bishop to surrender, Selah mocks him, calling him "hangman" and claiming he's not interested in the truth. Mac, though, wants to quit being a lawman and go west to be a lawyer instead. Bishop breaks out of jail, but Mac lets him go. Buck wants to marry Selah, but she's beholden now to Mac.Sgt. Tom Sloan sees his Lieutenant Joel Brady kill one of their own Marines, Johnny Campbell on Guadalcanal after Brady led a disastrous suicidal attack against Japanese entrenched in caves. As the only survivors of the debacle, Sloan doesn't turn Brady in as he assumes no one will believe his word against an officer's. With Brady's recommendation, Sloan is later commissioned and assigned as an aide to a general  back in the 2nd Marine Division headquarters in New Zealand. Lt. Sloan meets Campbell's widow, Ruth  to bring her letters written by Johnny. However he meets Brady who is keeping company with Ruth's sister . Sloan lands on Tarawa with Brady, now a Captain; each hating each other more than the Japanese.Two US government agents, Hal Duncan and Sam Bradley, must prevent agents of a foreign power, led by Regan and Cady, from hijacking trucks and stealing defence materials being transported by truck. They are hired by an interstate trucking association whose constituent truck lines have been principal targets of the hijacking, and it becomes evident that one of the four directors of the association - Armstrong, Crandall, Thompson or Willard - is the secret leader of this gang and provides them with shipment and route information necessary for the gang's successes.When longtime professional rodeo competitor Jeff McCloud  is injured by a Brahma bull he was trying to ride, he decides to quit. He hitchhikes to his childhood home, a decrepit place now owned by Jeremiah . Run down as it is, it is the dream home for Wes Merritt  and his wife Louise . They are painstakingly saving up the money to buy it from Wes's meager wages as a cowhand. Jeff gets a job at the same ranch. Wes enters a local rodeo behind his wife's back. When he does well, he decides to join the rodeo circuit, with Jeff as his partner and trainer. Louise is wholeheartedly against the idea, but goes along. She makes her husband promise to quit once they have saved enough for the house. As Louise becomes acquainted with rodeo life, she becomes more and more disenchanted. Jeff's friend Booker Davis , once a champion competitor himself, is now a crippled old man with little to show for his efforts. When Buster Burgess  is gored and killed by a bull, leaving a bitter widow , Louise can no longer bear to watch her husband compete. However, Wes is seduced by his great success and the money he is winning. He refuses to quit when they have enough for the house. Matters come to a head when Babs  invites Wes to a party she is throwing, and makes a play for him. Louise fights back by putting on her only good dress and going to the party with Jeff. She pours a drink on her rival's head before leaving. In the hallway, Jeff asks her if she could love another man, but she is true to Wes. Coming on the tail end of the conversation, Wes tells Jeff that he is tired of taking all the risks and giving him half the prize money. Jeff decides to go back to the rodeo, despite not being in shape. He gains back Wes's respect by doing well. Then, in the bronc riding event, his foot gets stuck in the stirrup after a successful ride, and he is fatally injured. Seeing this, Wes comes to his senses and quits.The Stooges are exterminators mistaken for B.O. Pictures' publicity department. They are then instructed to drum up publicity for the studio's lovely new actress Dolly Devore , and arrange a fake kidnapping. However, two gangsters hear the Stooges' plan and kidnap Devore for real, forcing the Stooges to come to her rescue.During the American War of Independence, the settlement of Boonesborough, Kentucky is besieged by both hostile Indian tribes and the British. Overtures of peace fail that culminates in a frontal assault on the fort.Ben Allison  and his brother Clint ([[Cameron Mitchell  journey to Montana in search of gold. They come upon wealthy businessman Nathan Stark  who they rob and kidnap before he talks them into becoming partners with him on a cattle drive to Montana. As they travel to Texas to buy the cattle, they come upon a party of settlers who share their fire and agree to slaughter a mule for food; as they leave the next day they realize the Indians  are likely to attack the settlers and Ben heads back to see the last of the settlers being attacked by a war party and shoots several of them. He saves Nella Turner  who eventually joins them on the cattle drive. Ben and Nella have a fling while stuck in a cabin during a snow storm, but Nella rejects him as he "dreams too small" wanting to settle down to a ranch in his hometown whereas she sees that lifestyle as the road to unhappiness given her parents' experience. Arriving in San Antonio, Nella takes up with Stark, whose desire to make as much money as possible coincides with Nella's own ambitions. But when, at Stark's insistence, she accompanies him on the final trek to Montana, the friction between Ben and Stark erupts as the drive heads into dangerous Indian country.Elvis Presley plays Deke Rivers, a delivery man who is discovered by publicist Glenda Markle  and country-western musician Tex Warner . Deke is a handsome young man with a fast car and even faster fists, but what really sets him apart is his voice and charisma. One day he's seen singing, and word quickly spreads of his talent throughout the small town in which he works. Markle and Warner, believing in his potential, want to promote the talented newcomer to fame and fortune, giving him every break they feel he deserves. At first, Warner, a washed-up country music entertainer, sees Deke's addition to the act as merely a side act, and that Warner will return to the limelight. He learns the painful truth after Glenda tearfully tells him that the promoters she works with don't want Warner anymore...and that Deke is their only shot left at the big-time.In 1896, Jeff Webster  hears of the Klondike gold rush and he and friend Ben Tatum  decide to drive a herd of cattle to Dawson City. On the way, he annoys self-appointed Skagway judge Gannon  by interrupting a hanging, so the "lawman" confiscates his herd. Jeff and Ben steal the animals back and take off with Gannon and his men in hot pursuit. After crossing the border into Canada, Jeff uses a few well-placed warning shots to persuade Gannon's gang to give up the chase, but the judge promises a hot reception when Jeff returns. When Jeff gets to Dawson, he finds widespread  lawlessness, and ignores it as none of his business. He auctions off his herd to new arrival Ronda Castle , one of Gannon's business associates, when she outbids Hominy , Grits  and Molasses , co-owners of the local hash house. Both Ronda and French-Canadian gamine Renee Vallon  are strongly attracted to Jeff. Ronda sets up a saloon in partnership with Gannon and begins cheating the miners out of their claims. Gannon and his gunmen show up to grab their share , making Dawson much more dangerous. Jeff stays out of it, instead planning to sneak out by river while Gannon is otherwise occupied. However, Gannon is tipped off when Ben buys extra coffee for the long trip; his men kill Ben and wound Jeff, finally forcing him to take sides. Jeff calls Gannon out to settle the dispute man to man, but the villain arranges an ambush. Ronda rushes out to warn Jeff and is fatally shot in the back. Jeff kills Gannon in the ensuing gunfight and the rest of his gang surrender to the fed-up longtime residents.Tobruk, a British base, is attacked by the German Afrika Korps in the Western Desert Campaign of World War II. During the resulting evacuation, Captain Anson , a transport pool officer suffering from battle fatigue and almost an alcoholic, MSM Tom Pugh  and two nurses — Diana Murdoch  and Denise Norton —crew an Austin K2 ambulance, , and decide to drive across the desert back to British lines. As they depart they come across an Afrikaaner South African officer, Captain van der Poel , who carries a large pack, to which he seems very attached. After the South African shows Anson two bottles of gin in his back pack, van der Poel persuades Anson to let him join them in their drive to the safety of the British lines in Alexandria, Egypt Anson motivates himself by thinking of the ice cold lager he will order when they finally reach the safety of Alexandria—the 'Alex' of the title. En route, the group meets with various obstacles including a minefield, a broken suspension spring , and the dangerous terrain of the Qattara Depression. Twice the group encounters motorized elements of the advancing Afrika Korps; in one encounter they are fired upon and Norton is fatally wounded. Van der Poel, who claims to have learned German while working in South-West Africa, is able to talk the Germans into allowing them to go on their way. The second time however, they seem reluctant, until he shows them the contents of his back-pack. This pack becomes the focus of suspicion. Pugh, already troubled by van der Poel's lack of knowledge of the South African Army's tea-brewing technique, follows him when he heads off into the desert with his pack and a spade . Pugh thinks he sees an antenna. Later, at night, they decide to use the ambulance headlights to see what van de Poel is really up to. He panics, blunders into some quick-sand, and buries his pack, though not before Anson and Murdoch see that it contains a radio set. They drag him to safety. While he recovers, they realise that he is probably a German spy, but decide not to tell him about this. During the final leg of the journey Katy must be hand-cranked in reverse up an escarpment, and van der Poel's strength is again crucial to achieving this. When they reach Alexandria they make their way to a bar where Anson orders a beer, consumed with a relish which creates the most memorable scene and the poster image of the film. But before they have drunk their first round, a Corps of Military Police officer arrives to arrest van der Poel. Anson, who had prearranged this at a checkpoint as they entered the city, orders him to wait. Having become friends with van der Poel and indebted to him for saving the group's lives, Anson tells him that if he gives his real name, he will be treated as a prisoner of war, rather than as a spy . Van der Poel admits to being Hauptmann Otto Lutz, an engineering officer with the 21st Panzer Division. Pugh notices that Lutz is still wearing fake South African dog tags and rips them off before the police see them. Lutz, after saying his farewells and concluding that they were "all against the desert, the greater enemy", is driven away, with a new respect for the British.Rick Largo and the Banner brothers hold up a bank. Frank is persuaded to shoot brother Johnny by the greedy Largo, so the loot can be split just two ways. Johnny, left for dead, recovers and rides to town. He challenges his brother to a showdown, then spares his life but orders him out of town. He gives no such chance to Largo, gunning him down. Deciding to leave for Wyoming to buy a ranch, Johnny is asked to drive the stagecoach through dangerous Indian territory when no one else will. Aboard are saloon singer Amy Clarke, her piano player Minstrel, gold speculator Chester, bank clerk Hamilton and a senator named Blakeley who is sympathetic toward the Indians in spite of all the violence. Frank's lifeless body is found on the trail, filled with arrows. A wheel breaks, forcing the travelers to stop for repairs. Chester is killed in an Indian ambush. Hamilton, who was falsely suspected in the bank job Johnny pulled, nearly dies before Johnny saves his life. Heat and thirst get to the survivors as the Indians wait them out. Minstrel sees a mirage, wanders off and is shot. Blakeley is mocked by Amy for his kindness toward the Indians, so he ventures out, hoping to reason with them. He, too, is killed. Hamilton's life is slipping away, so Johnny makes a try for a canteen left out by the Indians as bait. He is attacked by a Cheyenne brave and spares his life, telling him to return to his people and admit being saved by a white man. Hamilton expires, but the Indian returns with fresh horses for Johnny and Amy, who ride back toward town so Johnny can turn himself in for the robbery.In Egypt in 1895, archaeologists John Banning , his father Stephen  and his uncle Joseph Whemple  are searching for the tomb of Princess Ananka, the high priestess of the god Karnak. John has a broken leg and cannot accompany his father and uncle when they open the tomb. Before they enter, an Egyptian man named Mehemet Bey  warns them not to go in, lest they face the fatal curse against desecraters. Stephen and Joseph ignore him, and discover within the sarcophagus of Ananka. After Joseph leaves to tell John the good news, Stephen finds the Scroll of Life and reads from it. He then screams off-screen and is found in a catatonic state. Three years later, back in England, Stephen Banning comes out of his catatonia at the Engerfield Nursing Home for the Mentally Disordered, and sends for his son. He tells him that when he read from the Scroll of Life, he unintentionally brought back to life Kharis , the mummified high priest of Karnak. He was sentenced to be entombed alive to serve as the guardian of Princess Ananka's tomb as punishment for attempting to bring her back to life out of forbidden love. Now, Stephen tells his disbelieving son that Kharis will hunt down and kill all those who desecrated Ananka's tomb. Meanwhile, Mehemet Bey, revealed as a devoted worshiper of Karnak, comes to Engerfield under the alias of Mehemet Akir to wreak vengeance on the Bannings. He hires a pair of drunken carters, Pat and Mike, to bring the slumbering Kharis in a crate to his rented home, but the two men foul up, and Kharis' crate falls off and sinks into a bog. Later, using the Scroll of Life, Mehemet exhorts Kharis to rise from the muck, then sends him to murder Stephen Banning. When Kharis kills Joseph Whemple the next night, he does so before the eyes of John Banning, who shoots him with a revolver at close range to no effect. Police Inspector Mulrooney is assigned to solve the murders, but because he is skeptical and deals only in "cold, hard facts", he does not believe John's incredible story about a killer mummy, even when John figures that he is to be Kharis' third victim. While Mulrooney investigates, John notices that his wife Isobel bears an uncanny resemblance to Princess Ananka. Listening to a man who saw the mummy walking, Mulrooney slowly begins to wonder if John is right. Mehemet Bey sends the mummy to the Bannings' home to slay his final victim. However, when Isobel rushes to her husband's aid, Kharis sees her, releases John and leaves. Mehemet Bey mistakenly believes that Kharis has completed his task, and prepares to return to Egypt. John, suspecting him of being the one controlling the mummy, pays him a visit, much to his surprise. After John leaves, Mehemet Bey leads Kharis in a second attempt on John's life. The mummy knocks out Mulrooney, while Mehemet Bey deals with another policemen guarding the house. Kharis then finds and chokes John. Alerted by John's shots, Isobel once again causes Kharis to release him. When Mehemet orders Kharis to kill her, he refuses and kills Mehemet instead when he tries to finish her off himself. The mummy carries an unconscious Isobel into the swamp, followed by John, Mulrooney and other policemen. John yells to Isobel and when she regains consciousness, she tells Kharis to put her down. The mummy reluctantly obeys and when Isobel has moved away from him, the policemen open fire, causing Kharis to sink into a mire, taking the Scroll of Life with him.The comedic tone was established by the following disclaimer at the end of the opening credits: {{quote}} This was meant to underscore the fact that the actual event portrayed in the movie was, as stated in its Official Entry Regulations, "NOT A RACE."2012 London to Brighton Veteran Car Run  Official Entry Regulations &ndash; Regulation 4.3.4. The story revolves around two Veteran cars and their crews participating in the annual London to Brighton Veteran Car Run. Alan McKim , a young barrister and his wife Wendy , drive Genevieve, a 1904 Darracq. Their friend Ambrose Claverhouse , a brash advertising salesman, his latest girlfriend, fashion model Rosalind Peters  and her pet St. Bernard ride in a 1904 Spyker. The journey to Brighton goes well for Claverhouse, but the McKims' trip is complicated by several breakdowns, and they arrive very late. As Alan cancelled their accommodation in their usual plush hotel during a fit of pique, they are forced to spend the night in a dingy run-down hotel  leaving Wendy feeling less than pleased. They finally join Ambrose and Rosalind for after-dinner drinks, but Rosalind gets very drunk, and insists on playing the trumpet with the house band. She mimes her trumpet solo "Genevieve" to a rendition by jazz trumpeter Kenny Baker, before falling fast asleep moments later, to Wendy's great amusement. Coincidentally, Kay Kendall and Kenny Baker were both born in Withernsea, Yorkshire. Alan and Wendy have an argument over Ambrose's supposed romantic attentions to her, and Alan goes off to the garage to sulk. Whilst working on his car in the middle of the night, Ambrose turns up. Angry words are exchanged and Alan impulsively bets Ambrose one hundred pounds that he can beat Ambrose back to London, despite racing not being allowed by the club. Ambrose accepts the bet—"First over Westminster Bridge". The following morning, despite Rosalind's massive hangover and Wendy's determined disapproval of the whole business, the two crews race back to London. Each driver is determined that his car is the better, come what may, and they both resort to various forms of cheating. Ambrose sabotages Alan's engine, and Alan causes Ambrose to be stopped by the police. Finally, on the outskirts of London , both cars are stopped by traffic police and the four contestants are publicly warned after Alan and Ambrose come to blows. At Wendy's insistence, they decide to call off the bet and have a party instead. But whilst waiting for the public house to open, words are exchanged and the bet is on again. The two cars race neck-and-neck through the southern suburbs of London. But with only a few yards to go, Genevieve breaks down. As Ambrose's car is about to overtake it, its tyres become stuck in tramlines  and it drives off in another direction. The brakes on Genevieve fail and the car rolls a few yards onto Westminster Bridge, thus winning the bet.The film follows a pilot and crew of a World War II-era Douglas C-47 Skytrain  who try to survive after a forced emergency landing in the uncharted wildlands near the Quebec-Labrador border. The pilot, Dooley , is a former airline pilot, who, like many others, was pressed into duty hauling war supplies across the northern route to England. Icy conditions force the aircraft to land, and with the difficulties of navigating far from settled country, they can provide only an approximate position to rescuers. After finding a frozen lake for a landing field, while waiting for rescue, Dooley must keep his men alive in the extreme winter cold with temperatures plummeting to -40 degrees F. Back at Air Transport Headquarters, Col. Fuller  gathers fellow airmen  who are determined to find the downed crew before hunger and the winter do them in. Wellman provides internal narrative for the stoic characters. There is tension and a fear-filled meeting among the search pilots when no one is quite sure about what to do, since a wrong decision could doom the missing crew.It is the old west and the Dillon clan are making life miserable for a small Western town. Sweetheart Nell  and her dashing but dimwitted boyfriend Elmer  rushes off to find help. Meanwhile, cavalrymen the Stooges are making life miserable for superior, Sergeant Mullins . Mullins tries to whip the boys into shape, but his plan backfire and has a run-in with his superior, Captain Daley . Daley informs Mullins about the Dillion clan's evildoings, and needs some men to run them out of town. Mullins does not miss a beat, and volunteers the unsuspecting Stooges.  The trio are made up to look like tough desperadoes, and happen upon the town saloon. They take jobs as waiters and do their best to spy on Dillion ([[Kenneth MacDonald  and his hombres without being discovered  However, Moe's mustache flies off his face, right onto Dillion's nose. The gang tie up Moe and Larry, and manage to corner Shemp into a safe. As this is going on, Elmer is stumbling his way to the door of United States Cavalry, who are temporarily unavailable, it being pay day and all . Disillusioned, Elmer returns to rescue his Nell, who is busy knocking every cowboy who enters her room out cold. Eventually, the Stooges emerge victorious, and Nell and Elmer settle down after Elmer, convinced that he's better off riding alone, gets a glass jug to the head.In April 1953, during the Korean War, a company of American infantry, led by Lieutenant Joe Clemons  are to recapture Pork Chop Hill from a larger Communist Chinese army force; they recapture the hill, but are depleted, only 25 of a 135-man unit are left. They prepare for a large-scale Chinese counter-attack which they know will overwhelm and kill them in vicious fire fights and hand-to-hand fighting while the Panmunjeom cease-fire negotiations continue. Higher command is shown as being unwilling to either abandon or reinforce the hill. They will not reinforce the hill because the value of the hill is not worth further losses. They will not abandon the hill because it is a point of negotiation in the cease-fire talks. The American negotiators come to the conclusion that the Chinese were pouring soldiers into a battle for a militarily insignificant hill to test the resolve of the Americans in the negotiations. The decision is then made at the last minute to reinforce the hill.On his wedding day, John Paul Steckler VII , is tracked down by Navy officers for having misplaced the navy destroyer-escort, USS Kornblatt, following World War II. He is charged with finding it, and through a series of comedic capers told through flashbacks, the viewer follows him along during his pursuit.The Stooges are choreographers at B. O. Pictures who are assigned to teach island natives how to dance. The studio's president, Mr. Baines  has purchased the island of Rarabonga for his next musical extravaganza, but learns that the locals have never heard of dancing. When the Stooges arrive at Rarabonga, they soon learn that the natives are head hunters under the control of powerful Witch Doctor Varanu ([[Kenneth MacDonald . Shemp makes it clear he does not want the "hair cuts down to my neck!" and the Stooges try to flee with the help of the Tribe King's daughter Luana . She wants them to rescue her boyfriend from the witch doctor, who plans to behead him in the morning—along with the Stooges. In one of the huts, the Three Stooges try to get their hands on a box of surplus World War II hand grenades guarded by a living Kali type four-armed totem idol . After getting the daylights beat out of them by the fierce idol, the boys grab the box of grenades, and fool the Witch Doctor into proving his expertise with his sword by slicing the box of grenads with his huge sword, and the grenades promptly explode, blowing him out of the atmosphere. With Witch Doctor Varanu gone, the Stooges commence with their choreography lessons and teach the natives to dance.The film begins with scenes of life in Wyoming Territory, where new settlers join the cattle business by finding stray, unbranded cattle, called "mavericks", on public land. The narrator explains that established ranchers use the so-called "maverick law" against the settlers, while "sharp-witted men" take advantage of the resulting conflict. After this introduction, Jim Averell  is shown exhorting settlers to elect him governor to defend them against cattle barons such as Reece Duncan . When Averell's speech is over, the famous stage performer Kate Maxwell  arrives with a group of showgirls. Averell has arranged for Kate to operate both a cattle-buying business and a saloon. Duncan warns Kate that he will kill anyone caught stealing cattle on his land, and Sheriff Stan Blaine  warns her of an impending war over the cattle business. The tension between Duncan and the settlers rises as the settlers search for mavericks on Duncan's land and outlaws hired by Averell steal Duncan's cattle. Averell designed the "K-M" brand for Kate's cattle business in such a way that her branding iron completely covers Duncan's "bar double check" brand when applied directly over it. When Averell explains this trick to Kate, he makes it clear to her that she will be hanged as a rustler if she informs the authorities, and Duncan refuses her offer to support him against Averell. Meanwhile, unknown gunfighters assemble in the nearby hills, and one of them shoots a settler. After Duncan attempts to stop a cattle roundup organized by Averell and the settlers, one of his men is killed, with Kate's branding iron left near the body. To further increase the tension, Averell offers Duncan his support against the settlers immediately after inciting their anger against Duncan. Averell's plan is to ignite a cattle war and promote his own political career by providing leadership once the war has begun. However, Blaine discovers Averell's plan. After Blaine and Kate have explained it to their men, they stage a fake war, and Blaine forces Averell to signal his men. When the outlaws ride into town, they begin a gunfight against both Duncan's men and the settlers. After Averell shoots Blaine, Kate catches him stealing money from the saloon, and when he tries to shoot her, she and Blaine kill him. After the fight, Blaine prepares to leave town, but Kate persuades him to stay with her. The film ends as they ride away to inspect some farmland for a new home.Will Stockdale is a backward, backwoods rube from outside Callville, Georgia who may or may not be smarter than he looks. Accused by Mr. McKinney the head of the draft board of being a draft dodger, it turns out that Stockdale's draft notices have been hidden from him by his father, who doesn't want the boy to leave home and be ridiculed. His father tells Will to be careful going to big cities like Macon and Atlanta. Pa Stockdale says he has been to those cities many years before and he was ridiculed. Wrongfully shackled by McKinney, Stockdale joins a group of new United States Air Force draftees being transported to basic training. They include the obnoxious bully Irving S. Blanchard, who having undergone ROTC training, volunteers to be in charge.  They report to boot camp, where Stockdale and his equally dim, but smarter friend, Ben Whitledge, begin the struggle to join the infantry. Stockdale is incredibly strong and can drink any man under the table. He proceeds to make life miserable for the man in charge, Master Sergeant Orville C. King, who likes his barracks to be quiet and calm. King wears Air Crewmember Wings and states, "he is 45 years old, has eighteen years in the military service and sixteen years as a sergeant." In exasperation, the sergeant places the country bumpkin on full-time latrine duty. Stockdale believes his new position of "P.L.O."  to be a promotion. The happy-go-lucky Stockdale feels that King must be "the best dang sergeant in whole dang US Air Force." The totally unhappy Whitledge wants no part of it, lamenting that an "Airman" is "like something from a funny book." Ben wants to be assigned to the infantry instead. A letter from his mother states, "that Ben's six brothers have all served in the Infantry." Ben tells Will, "his grandfather was a Confederate Infantryman, under General Stonewall Jackson at the Battle of Chancellorsville." Ben Whitledge says, "In the War Between the States, it was the infantry that did the fighting," which is understandable, airplanes not having been invented yet. King tells Will the Captain desires to see the barracks and latrine spotless. A company inspection takes a surprising turn when Stockdale's immaculately clean latrine is what impresses King's company commander most. King gets into hot water, however, when Stockdale opens his big mouth and reveals that the sergeant kept him on bathroom duty on a permanent basis while also neglecting to have the recruit complete all the required military exams and paper work. The company commander orders King to have Stockdale through his training in one week, or else he will not only be demoted, but be made "Permanent Latrine Orderly" himself. Rushing him through testing, King bribes Stockdale by promising to give him his wristwatch, if he can pass. Stockdale flummoxes and frustrates the various officer and men, he takes a manual dexterity test conducted by Corporal John C. Brown , a psychiatric test by Maj. Royal B. Demming , and an eye exam, amazingly managing to get by after driving them all crazy. Stockdale gets the wristwatch as a reward. Ben comes to attention when a WAF Captain speaks, Will is speechless. Later, she is escorted into the Enlisted Men's Mess Hall by the Colonel. After being informed of military etiquette as to female officers by Ben, when Blanchard and King ask Will what he sees he says, "a Captain." Private Blanchard tells M/Sgt. King to get three passes to go to a local bar, "The Purple Grotto" where King and Blanchard try to get Stockdale drunk in order to make him look bad and King look good. He admits he has never drunk...store bought liquor. King and Blanchard are inebriated, but Will is still sober. Stockdale says the only alcohol he previously had was what his father made with corn, grain and kerosene. Blanchard buys Lighter Fluid from a cigarette girl. Mixing gin and bourbon with kerosene ... Will drinks it and says "it's familiar." Then a drunken Army infantryman walks by and a barroom brawl begins. Stockdale leaves behind a fighting Blanchard and King; as he walks past the Air Police, he tells them that upstairs is the bar. The colonel and captain later inspect the latrine and barracks. Will has mechanically rigged all the toilet seats to open simultaneously in a "salute". While Blanchard is arrested and detained by the Air Police, M/Sgt. King is found filthy in a torn uniform, later in the latrine, and is summarily reduced to private rank, while Whitledge was blamed for King's appearance and is also placed in disgraced status. As King goes back to his office dejected, he admits to Stockdale that he and Blanchard had been trying to trick Stockdale to get him out of the way so that King would not look bad, but their effort backfired. Will gives the watch back to King. King also admits he had grown to like Stockdale and became his reluctant and inadvertent mentor to success in the Air Force. Will, Ben and Pvt. King are sent to Gunnery School. Will is at the bottom of the class and Ben is next to the bottom. King graduates as the top man of the class. He is assigned to General Eugene Bush's staff and is given back his M/Sgt. rank. The story ends with Stockdale and Whitledge  flying to Denver in an obsolete B-25 medium bomber. Stockdale's assignment is tail gunner on the bomber. After putting the plane on Autopilot, the lazy pilots fall asleep, and the airplane soon becomes lost at night over what the navigator thinks is the Gulf of Mexico. They really are flying over the Atomic Bomb Test Site at Yucca Flats, Nevada, during an A-bomb test called "Operation Prometheus". The radio operator of the plane was left behind at the base, so Stockdale and Whitledge must radio to obtain their real position; however, the radio is inoperatable. Stockdale remembers that back home in Georgia, his father would spit into the radio and smack it to make it work. Stockdale repeats the method, and the radio works. Military radiomen on the ground, confused by Stockdale's folksy, clownish speech, have the commander of the test Maj. Gen. Vernon Pollard, U.S. Army Infantry frantically rouse Maj. Gen. Eugene Bush, U.S. Air Force from his sleep to confirm that Stockdale is not a prankster, and to give Stockdale emergency flying instructions. Bush reassures Stockdale that he is real and not a foreign agent as King tells Bush to remind Stockdale of the watch. Meanwhile, a fire breaks out in the aft of the plane. The Air Force and Army are put on full alert. Stockdale and Whitledge bail out of the plane just before it crashes, and are declared dead by the Staff Aide M/Sgt. King. During an Air Medal ceremony honoring them as fallen heroes, they reappear, and the Air Force has to cover up that the pair are alive to avoid an international public humiliation. Stockdale suggests both he and Ben  be transferred to become infantrymen. Will and Ben are taken at night to a secluded area. An agreement is reached by two former West Point classmates, General Pollard, USA and General Bush, USAF, who also heartily approve of Stockdale's last request—to have M/Sgt. King transferred with them to the infantry. General Pollard has to cut an Air Medal from his uniform. He sits as General Bush pins the Air Medal on Ben Whitledge. As a radio station signs off, to The Star-Spangled Banner, all the men snap to attention, including a reluctant General Pollard.Rugged mining engineer Rian Mitchell  discovers a lost emerald mine in the highlands of Colombia, which had last been operated by the Spanish conquistadors. Rian is a man consumed by the quest for wealth. However, he has to contend with local bandits and a savage leopard. Taken to recuperate at the plantation home of local coffee grower Catherine Knowland  and her brother Donald , Rian manages to charm Catherine. His partner, Vic Leonard , is preparing to leave Colombia on the next ship. Rian, anxious to get Vic's assistance to mine the emeralds, tricks him into staying. Returning to the mine, Rian first gets Catherine's cooperation and then resumes his romantic overtures. However, his greed to get the emeralds at any cost soon creates trouble. He comes into conflict with the chief of the local bandits, who threatens Catherine at her home. He also takes Donald into the mining operation, despite Donald's complete inexperience, solely in order to obtain the coffee plantation workers on for his mining needs. This, however, means that Catherine does not have enough workers available to pick the coffee when harvest time arrives. Rian's mining operations also put the plantation at risk of flooding. When a tragic accident at the mine site kills Donald, even Vic abandons his old friend Rian and sets out to help Catherine with her harvest, all the while harboring his own passion for the beautiful young woman. It takes a final shootout between the bandits and Rian's men, in which Catherine and Vic do support him, for Rian to finally come to his senses and realize his mistakes. At great risk to himself, he sets in place an explosion of dynamite that not only diverts the water away from Catherine's plantation, but also buries the mine under tons of rubble, from where it can no longer be reached. Rian then reunites with a forgiving Catherine.Early one morning, a room service waiter at a New York City hotel is horrified to discover that the young man to whom he has just delivered breakfast  is standing on the narrow ledge outside his room on the fifteenth floor. Charlie Dunnigan ([[Paul Douglas , a policeman on traffic duty in the street below, tries to talk him off the ledge to no avail. He is ordered back to traffic patrol by police emergency services deputy chief Moksar . But he is ordered to return when the man on the ledge will not speak to psychiatrists summoned to the scene. The police identify the man as Robert Cosick and locate his mother , but her overwrought, hysterical behavior only upsets Cosick and seems to drive him toward jumping. His father ([[Robert Keith , who he despises, then arrives. The divorced father and mother clash over old family issues, and the conflict is played out in front of the police. Dunnigan seeks to reconcile Robert with his father, who Cosick has been brought up to hate by his mother. Dunnigan forces Mrs. Cosick to reveal the identity of a "Virginia" mentioned by Robert, and she turns out to be his estranged fiancee.  After a while, Dunnigan convinces Cosick everyone will leave the hotel room so that he can rest. As Cosick steps in, a crazy evangelist sneaks into the room and Cosick goes back to the ledge. This damages his trust in Dunnigan, as does an effort by police to drop down from the roof and grab him. As night falls, Virginia  is brought to the room, and she pleads with Robert to come off the ledge, to no avail. All the while, the police, under the command of Moksar, are working to grab Robert and put a net below him.{{cite web}}The setting is Rome, 54 A. D.; the camera pans past a billboard announcing "Another Appian Freeway for Your Safety " before settling on an exterior view of the Coliseum. As spectators file into the Coliseum, their shadows fall on a poster describing the day's sporting event: :"Detroit Lions in Season Opener &mdash; Undefeated Lions out for First Taste of Victory" The sign was a reference to the NFL team with the same name, which was a league powerhouse at the time. The NFL Lions had appeared in the league championship game in the three seasons prior to the short being released, winning the title in 1952 and 1953. A radio-style sportscaster describes the scene for his audience and the entrance of Emperor Nero into the arena . Nero is represented as a caricature of actor Charles Laughton who had played the character in The Sign of the Cross in 1932. The announcer reports that Nero has "consented to throw out the first victim". When it turns out they are all out of victims, Nero commands Captain of the Guard Sam to take his legion out to get one . Along the way, Sam and the legion  cross paths with Bugs Bunny who is looking at them expecting a parade. Sam sends his troops after Bugs but he trips them with his foot. Sam then chases after Bugs in a chariot where he once again is victim of the "giddyap! horse/whoa! horse" routine. Through the rest of the picture, Sam and Bugs are running through the labyrinth of the Coliseum where the lions seem to be lurking behind every other door. Sam ends up near a lion's cage and hits it on the head as Bugs opens the cage causing the lion to attack Sam. Sam goes through a door and locks it only for the lion to grab the rug underneath him and pull him in to attack him. Yosemite then chases Bugs into a large underground room, full of sleeping lions. Sam unknowingly follows him in and sees Bugs sneaking toward the ladder. Bugs gets out and lowers an alarm clock on a rope through a grate into the room, which wakes the lions who attack Sam as he escapes. He then nears a pit of lions with Bugs at the other side. As Sam makes is way across with stilts, Bugs gives the lions some axes and saws which they use to cut the stilts down and attack Sam as he tries to get back to the other side. Bugs finally escapes but accidentally gets himself in the middle of the arena. Sam victoriously joins Nero in his box as the lions are released. The lions run by Bugs  and straight to Sam and Nero who take refuge atop a tall column. Bugs puts on a Roman crown and says: "Well, as the Romans say, E Pluribus Uranium". As the enraged lions slowly chop down the column, Nero plays "Taps" on his fiddle as he and Sam await their fate, with the cartoon fading to black.John Wayne portrays a college football coach  who has been fired from previous jobs for violating rules relating to players' eligibility. Wayne's character is a divorced father of an eleven-year-old tomboy, Carol . Charles Coburn  plays the dean of a financially distressed Catholic college in New York City who hires Wayne to make the college's football team competitive so that receipts from game ticket sales will supply funds for the college. Donna Reed plays a social worker  who in investigating complaints of child neglect against John Wayne's character. James Dean appears as an uncredited extra in the film, during a scene in the college chapel.Major Cleve "Iceman" Saville  is a veteran World War II fighter ace eager to fly an F-86 Sabre fighter in the Korean War. His commanding officer, Colonel "Dutch" Imil ([[Richard Egan , assigns him command of a flight. Among his pilots is a new replacement, talented, but brash Lieutenant Ed Pell . After he abandons his element leader, Lieutenant Corona , during combat to down an enemy fighter, Corona's aircraft is shot up; he is killed while trying to land. As a result, Saville wants Pell assigned to someone else, but Imil overrules him; Pell was top of his class in flight school and Imil sees him as a younger version of Saville. If anyone can get Pell to grow up, it is the major. Another pilot under Saville's command, Lieutenant Carl Abbott , poses a different kind of problem. He lacks confidence in his abilities; his worried wife Kristina  asks Saville to watch over him. Saville falls in love with her, and vice versa. Aware of the situation, Abbott offers Saville a deal: his wife in return for the opportunity to go one-on-one with "Casey Jones" , the most feared enemy ace, whose MiG-15 is marked with "7-11", if they should run into him. A disgusted Saville turns him down. Nevertheless, on a mission soon afterwards, Abbott tangles with Casey Jones and is quickly shot down far behind enemy lines. In an ensuing dogfight, Saville downs Casey Jones and, resisting the temptation to abandon the wounded Abbott, spots his parachute and ditches his aircraft nearby, disobeying standing orders. Pell strafes the North Korean infantrymen closing in and is shot down himself. The trio then make their way back to safety. Along the way, they are assisted by a friendly Korean farmer  and his family. When a North Korean patrol happens by, the Americans hide, but in their haste, a jacket is left behind. As a result, the family members are executed, but Saville and Pell avenge them. Afterward, Abbott is to be transferred back to the U.S. to recuperate. His brush with death has changed his priorities; he remorsefully asks Kristina for another chance. She decides to go with him.John "Hans" Lobert runs a training camp in Florida for baseball's New York Giants. Every year, he evaluates the 18-22-year-old hopefuls to pick the best for a minor league contract. All have dreams and talent, but the elimination whittles them down to a lucky few who will get the $150-a-month contract. Lobert's niece comes down from the home office in New York and finds herself attracted to one of the players, the tall, quiet Adam Polachuk.1934, Hamburg. Adolf Hitler is about to visit the city. Hamburg's executioner falls ill, and is unable to deliver the sentence of four communists who are awaiting capital punishment in jail. Fearing that this would spoil Hitler's visit, SS leader Footh offers a local bankrupt butcher, Albert Teetjen, 2,000 Marks in order to carry out the verdict. The broke Teetjen agrees and follows suit. When his neighbors hear of the execution, they shun him. His wife cannot tolerate her husband's deed and puts an end to her life. Eventually, Teetjen also commits suicide.Honest cop Paul Sheridan  is tasked to recover $200,000 after a bank robbery. He and other officers maintain a 24-hour surveillance on Lona McLane , a girlfriend of one of the robbers. Sheridan quickly falls in love with Lona, who, when she finds out he's a policeman, tries to persuade him to kill Harry Wheeler  so the two can take off with the cash. He initially resists, but eventually agrees. After the killing, Sheridan finds that he also has to betray fellow detective Paddy Dolan and deceive partner Rick McAllister and their boss Lieutenant Eckstrom to cover his tracks. Almost all the action takes place at night in the U-shaped apartment building where Lona and a key eyewitness, neighbor Ann Stewart, both live.A physician, whose license has been revoked, poses as a practicing doctor aboard a train passing through Arizona. His presence there is part of a caper involving a fictitious patient, on whose behalf he gains access to his checked baggage, including his physician's "black bag", in the baggage car, whereupon he blows and then robs the safe. Then he arranges for both the fictitious patient, which he claims is infected with a communicable disease which poses an immediate and extremely serious public health risk, and himself to leave the train, presumably departing for the closest hospital, which is also far from any scheduled train stop, the two thereby escaping with $500,000 in an ambulance. The railroad officials do not discover the robbery until the train reaches Phoenix, many hours after their escape has been effected. In response, the insurance company puts the protagonist, Charlie Norman, on the case, forcing him to postpone his previously scheduled vacation to Mexico. Joe Armstrong, an old friend who is the investigator for the railroad, works with him. Gradually evidence starts to turn up that the thieves ditched the ambulance and escaped in a rented helicopter. The scheme was thus elaborate, showing that the robbery had been carried out according to a strict timetable. But there was one misstep that kept it from being the perfect crime. As the investigators pursue this misstep, the intended timetable starts to unravel and the audience suddenly discovers who the secret mastermind is. Finally, as the American and Mexican authorities begin to close in, the mastermind pulls his last clean-escape opportunity from his sleeve, only to have his well-intentioned wife pull a practical joke on him, in the process making a duplicate key to his locked attache case and substituting vacation travel magazines for his work papers only to discover that the robbery money is in his case, which she immediately returns, anonymously, to the railroad, thereby completely foiling what had started out to be "the perfect crime".Lemmy Caution is assigned to neutralise the international crimininal network of villain Siégella  as an undercover agent. In order to infiltrate the gang he pretends to be an escapee. During his covert investigations at the French Riviera he gets to know a beauty named Constance  who is associated with Mister Siégella. Lemmy can convince him that he would help to kidnap the rich American heiress Miranda Van Zelden . Once Lemmy has obtained enough proof to have Siégella convicted, he informs Interpol. After he has sent documents to Interpol, his cover is blown and he has to fight for his life.In the Arizona Territory of the 1880s, rancher Dan Evans and his young sons witness a stagecoach holdup. When the driver, Bill Moons, overpowers one of the robbers and uses him as a human shield, Ben Wade, the leader of the gang, callously shoots both men. Wade and his men stop at the saloon in nearby Bisbee, Arizona, posing as cowhands. When Wade stays to seduce the pretty barmaid Emmy, he is captured, but his henchman Charlie Prince gets away with the news. The townspeople fear what his men will do, so the town marshal decides to have two volunteers sneak the prisoner to Contention City to catch a train, the 3:10 to Yuma. Mr. Butterfield, the stage-line owner, offers $200 for the dangerous job. Desperate after three years of drought, Dan jumps at the opportunity, but the only other man interested is the town drunk, Alex Potter. When no one else steps forward, the marshal reluctantly accepts them. Wade is placed on a stagecoach, which then stops  for a faked repair; the outlaw is secretly taken off while the stage continues on with an imposter, in the hopes that by the time the outlaws figure out what has happened, it will be too late. Wade is taken to Dan's ranch, where Dan's devoted wife Alice serves supper to the family and their "guest". Dan, Alex and Wade leave under cover of darkness, reaching Contention City at daybreak. Butterfield has reserved the bridal suite at the hotel. While they wait for the train, Wade tries several times to bribe Dan into letting him go, his interest in Dan seeming to go beyond a simple exchange of freedom for cash. Dan is greatly tempted. The local sheriff is out of town, but Butterfield hires five men to help escort the prisoner to the train. Things go awry when Bob Moons barges in unexpectedly and threatens to shoot his brother's killer. Dan wrestles his gun away from him, but in the struggle, it goes off. Downstairs, Charlie Prince, who has also come to Contention City, hears the gunshot, and spots Wade in a window. Charlie is seen riding off to fetch the rest of the gang. The men Butterfield recruited watch as seven riders enter the town. Not liking the odds, they retreat, leaving only Dan, Alex and Butterfield. When Alex goes out to reconnoiter, he spots one of Wade's men on a rooftop opposite the hotel. Alex calls out, warning Dan, but is shot in the back by Prince. The gang hangs the wounded Alex from the lobby chandelier, killing him. Butterfield decides that maintaining Wade as a prisoner is not worth the risk, and releases Dan from his obligation. Alice arrives and also tries to change her husband's mind, but he is committed: "The town drunk gave his life because he believed that people should be able to live in decency and peace together. You think I can do less?" When the clock strikes three, Dan escorts Wade out the back door. Gang members take shots whenever they can without endangering Wade, but despite their best efforts, they cannot stop the pair from reaching the platform, where the train is waiting. Finally, the outlaws emerge to confront Dan as the train starts to leave. Charlie shouts for Wade to drop to allow them a clear shot at Dan. Instead, Wade unexpectedly tells Dan to jump into the passing baggage car. They jump together. The gang starts to run after the train, but Dan shoots Charlie and the rest then let it go. Wade explains himself, saying he felt he owed Dan for protecting him from Bob Moons in the hotel room, and confidently claiming he has broken out of the Yuma Jail before , but whether these statements reflect his true motivations and prospects is not clear. Alice sees Dan safe on the train as rain pours down on her, breaking the long drought.Rajan is a detective who has come to investigate the murder of his friend, a newspaper editor. Rajan has to face numerous troubles during his investigation but he succeeds in finding the culprit and bringing him in front of justice.In an unnamed small Polish town on May 8, 1945, the day Germany officially surrendered, Maciek  and Andrzej  are Home Army soldiers who have been assigned to assassinate the communist Commissar Szczuka , but fail in their first attempt to ambush him, killing two civilian cement plant workers instead. They are given a second chance in the town's leading hotel and banquet hall, Monopol. Meanwhile, a grand fête is being organized at the hall for a newly appointed minor minister  by his assistant, Drewnowski . Drewnowski is in fact a double agent, present at the first attempt to kill Szczuka. Maciek manages to sweet talk himself into a room with the desk clerk, who is also a fellow Warsaw native. They sadly reminisce about such things as the older section of town and the chestnut trees which were lost when the Germans destroyed most of the city in the aftermath of the Warsaw Uprising. While Maciek and Andrzej bide their time to strike Szczuka, Maciek becomes infatuated with the hotel's barmaid, Krystyna . Szczuka has recently returned from abroad , and is attempting to locate his son Marek. Szczuka's wife had died in a German concentration camp, and Marek had been staying with an aunt. Szczuka did not approve of the aunt's right-wing political views, and had written to her telling her to send his son Marek to live with other people he knew, apparently people whose political views were closer to Szczuka's own, but the aunt continued to raise Marek, who adopted her right-wing views and joined the Home Army . Szczuka goes to visit the aunt, who lives in the same town, to find out where is son is, but she says that he is already a grown man at 17 and that she does not know. Later that evening, Szczuka learns from the local security official that Marek has been captured by the Red Army and is being held in detention. Maciek's crush on Krystyna grows as the hour he must assassinate Szczuka nears, while Drewnowski becomes giddy at the thought at what his boss' promotion will do for his own career. Drinking with a cynical reporter until he is quite drunk, Drewnowski barges into the banquet dinner. In short order he sprays the guests with a fire extinguisher, pulls the tablecloth  to the floor and finds himself out of a job. After sleeping with Krystyna, Maciek goes for a walk with her and ends up in a bombed-out church. He tells her that he is thinking about changing some things in his life, and mentions the possibility of going to technical school. She finds an inscription on the wall, a poem by Cyprian Norwid: :So often, are you as a blazing torch with flames :of burning rags falling about you flaming, :you know not if flames bring freedom or death. :Consuming all that you must cherish :if ashes only will be left, and want Chaos and tempest :Or will the ashes hold the glory of a starlike diamond :The Morning Star of everlasting triumph. Attempting to fix her broken heel, Maciek stumbles into a crypt where the bodies of the men he killed that morning are laid out awaiting burial. He escorts Krystyna back to the hotel, where she has to go back to work at the bar until it closes at 3:00 a.m., and then goes inside, where he runs into Andrzej. He tells Andrzej that he has fallen in love with Krystyna, and although he is not a coward, he cannot continue killing and hiding and wants to lead a normal life. Andrzej is not only his friend, but also his commanding officer in the Home Army, and reacts as such, suggesting that Maciek would be a deserter if he failed to carry out the order to kill Szczuka. Maciek is taken aback, but then decides he must carry out his orders. He begins to stalk Szczuka, and when Szczuka forgoes his car to walk to the detention area holding his son, Maciek takes advantage of the opportunity to shoot him. As Szczuka falls, fireworks celebrating the end of the war fill the sky. The following morning, Maciek goes to the truck where Andrzej awaits. From concealment he watches as Drewnowski arrives thinking he will join them, but Andrzej is aware that Drewnowski is only doing it because he has no other choice. Andrzej throws him to the ground and drives off. When Drewnowski sees Maciek, he calls out to him. Maciek flees and runs into a patrol of Polish soldiers. He is shot and ends up dying in a trash heap.After Slip is drafted into the Marines, the rest of the gang volunteers so they can be with him. Sach discovers that the colonel knew his father and he is promoted. During a drill that he is putting the rest of the gang through, they find a soldier left for dead on the side of the road. Slip discovers a playing card next to the marine and traces it to Jolly Joe Johnson's gambling house. They suspect that the gambling house is cheating and set out to uncover the proof. They enter the gambling house late at night, but are discovered by Jolly Joe and his gang. A fight ensues, but two Marine intelligence officers arrive in time to arrest the criminals. Sach, having been framed for having a girl in the barracks is stripped of his promotions, but a new colonel is now in charge and fought with a soldier named Mahoney. Slip claims that was his father and he is promoted and promptly gets even with Sach by taking him on a long drill.In pre-revolutionary Cuba, James Wormold , a vacuum cleaner salesman, is recruited by Hawthorne  of the British Secret Intelligence Service to be their Havana operative. Instead of recruiting his own agents, Wormold invents agents from men he knows only by sight, and sketches "plans" for a rocket-launching pad based on vacuum parts to increase his value to the service and to procure more money for himself and his expensive daughter Milly. Because his importance grows, he is sent a secretary, Beatrice , and a radioman from London to be under his command. With their arrival it becomes much harder for Wormold to maintain his facade. However, when they do, all of his imagined information begins to come true. One of his "agents" is killed, and he is himself targeted for assassination. He admits what he's done to his secretary, and is recalled to London. At the film's conclusion, rather than telling the truth to the prime minister and other military intelligence services, Wormold's commanders  agree to fabricate a story claiming his imagined machines had been dismantled, bestow honors on Wormold, and offer him a position teaching espionage classes in London.In this Americanized remake of the 1931 German film of the same name, both the police and the criminal underworld stalk a mysterious killer who preys on small children.After meeting in the Navy recruiting line, Al Crowthers  and Melvin Jones  become friends. Al has tried to enlist before, 11 times, but was always rejected because of a bad knee. However, he keeps trying so that he can impress women, including Betty Hutton in a cameo role as 'Hetty Button'. Melvin, meanwhile, is allergic to women's cosmetics and his doctor prescribed ocean travel, so he decided to join the Navy as this was the only way he could afford to follow doctor's orders. Unbeknown to Al, the naval requirements have been lowered and this time he has been accepted, as has Melvin. They are assigned to Lardoski ([[Robert Strauss , a bully they met in line and referred to as 'fathead'. While in San Diego, Melvin falls in love with a woman Hilda Jones ([[Marion Marshall , who does not wear makeup. However, Melvin seems to attract women to him, and Lardoski wagers with Al that Melvin has to kiss any girl he names. Al agrees and Lardoski picks Corinne Calvet, who is playing at a nightclub in Honolulu. The crew then get sent out on the next submarine to Hawaii, in which Melvin is caught on deck when the ship is submerging. Upon his rescue he is tied to a torpedo for the rest of the voyage to avoid any more incidents. Once in Hawaii, Al romances Corinne while Melvin also vies for her affection in order to gain a kiss to win the bet which his shipmates have informed him about, and is unsuccessful in comforting Hilda who becomes jealous. Lardoski tries to prevent the kiss by getting the shore patrol to arrest Melvin, but he disguises himself as a hula dancer and gains the kiss. Al wins the bet , and Melvin works things out with Hilda.Ferrer plays newly-promoted Major Stringer of the Royal Marines, who comes up with a novel idea for a raid. By using collapsible canoes, he believes it is possible for commandos to reach an enemy-held harbour undetected and blow up ships with limpet mines. He is given command of a small group of volunteers. However, he clashes with his veteran second-in-command, cynical, by-the-book Captain Hugh Thompson . The two officers represent the clash of cultures in the Royal Marines in World War II and postwar. Stringer is the enthusiastic promoter of commando operations requiring daring and initiative, but has no experience leading men or operations. Thompson represents the old guard of traditional ship's detachments. Sergeant Craig  trains the men following Stringer's directions, but Thompson strongly disapproves of his commander's lax methods. When a test mission ends disastrously, Stringer admits his mistake and turns to Thompson, who soon whips the marines into shape. Ruddock ([[David Lodge , one of the men, goes AWL due to marital problems. Thompson gets to Ruddock's wife first and finds her with her civilian lover, but leaves when they both insult him. He goes to the local pub for a drink and finds the missing Marine. Thompson gives Ruddock enough time to beat up his wife's paramour, then drives him back to camp. The raid is launched soon afterwards: the canoes and commandos transported to the mouth of the Gironde by submarine. As they arrive off the Gironde estuary a depth charge attack by a passing German patrol boat knocks out Ruddock's partner. Thompson, who was not supposed to go on the raid, volunteers to take his place. The raiders then disembark and begin their attack. They face seventy miles of paddling upriver in their Cockle Mk II canoes. After moving by night and hiding by day, only four men reach the target, where they plant limpet mines on a number of ships. The raid is successful, but only Stringer and one marine, manage to escape. The rest are captured. When Thompson and the other prisoners refuse to divulge what their mission was, they are shot by firing squad, but not before hearing the mines explode.A newspaper announces the test flight of the world's biggest airplane. The plane lands at an airport, its giant wheel covering Bugs Bunny's hole. Bugs struggles out and, impressed by the plane, decides to take a look inside. Meanwhile, in town, Yosemite Sam robs the Last National Bank  and, after wiping off the assets, which read $4,562,321.08 , leaving just the $0.08, or ${{Inflation}} today. He hears the police approach and drives off to the airport, with plans to hijack a plane and take refuge in another country where he won't be found. Inside the plane, Bugs has started to pretend he's a World War II pilot, and when Sam boards, he assumes Bugs is the pilot and orders him to take off at once. Before Bugs can protest, Sam threatens to shoot him. Bugs succeeds in finding the ignition button, and the plane sets off down the runway and flies over a busy traffic intersection. Racing toward a skyscraper, Bugs pulls the plane up into outer space, sending Sam falling to the plane's tail. When it seems as if the plane is about to crash into the moon, Bugs steers the plane back down toward Earth, sending Sam falling to the plane's nose. As Sam threatens to have Bugs' license revoked, he discovers the rabbit reading a flying manual. Noticing the Earth growing larger in the window, Sam orders Bugs to read faster, or else. Bugs, however, refuses to read any further in the manual because of Sam's mean talk and orders him to apologize. Sam slaps himself in the head. The United States appears in the window; Sam apologizes to Bugs, but not without insulting him. Bugs then orders Sam to "say [he's] sorry with sugar on it." Sam refuses and tries to act nonchalant by playing with a yo-yo and a set of jacks. As a farm appears in the window, Sam finally gives in and apologizes properly. Bugs steers the plane straight back up into space and goes to radio the authorities to inform them that they're bringing the plane back. Sam then orders Bugs to give him the flying manual, but Bugs throws it out the open door. Sam runs out to retrieve it, but upon discovering how high he is, "runs" back in. Bugs then lets Sam slip on a banana peel and out the other door. When he hears Sam knocking at the door, Bugs pretends to be a grocer.  Burning of anger, Sam busts back in and threatens to blow Bugs to Kingdom Come. Since Sam happens to be standing on the bomb bay doors, Bugs pulls a cord and sends Sam falling out of the plane. Sam panics mid-air and scrambles back into the plane. Fed up with Bugs' flying, Sam orders Bugs to turn the controls over to him. Instead, Bugs breaks off the control column and tosses it out of the plane. Afraid of crashing, Sam activates the robot pilot, but the robot ends up chickening out, grabbing a parachute from the parachute locker, and jumping out of the plane himself. With just one parachute left, Bugs decides he and Sam should draw straws to see who gets it. Sam suggests that Bugs should prepare the straws. While Bugs is distracted with the straws, Sam grabs the parachute and his bag of stolen money. Sam jumps out and, while shouting at Bugs , lands in an open police car with policemen in it. Bugs manages to stop the plane in midair by pulling a lever . He's just thankful the plane comes with "air brakes" .Disillusioned knight Antonius Block  and his squire Jöns  return after fighting in the Crusades and find Denmark being ravaged by the plague. On the beach immediately after their arrival, Block encounters Death , personified as a pale, black-cowled figure resembling a monk. Block, in the middle of a chess game he has been playing alone, challenges Death to a chess match, believing that he can forestall his demise as long as the game continues. Death agrees, and they start a new game. The other characters in the story do not see Death, and when the chess board comes out at various times in the story, they believe Block is continuing his habit of playing alone.  Block and Jöns head for Block's castle. Along the way, they pass some actors, Jof and his wife Mia, with their baby son, Mikael, and their actor-manager, Skat. Jof has visions, but Mia is skeptical. The knight and the squire enter a church where a fresco of the Dance of Death is being painted. Jöns draws a small figure representing himself. "This is squire Jöns. He grins at Death; his world is a Jöns-world, believable only to himself, ridiculous to all including himself, meaningless to Heaven and of no interest to Hell."{{cite book| title Ingmar Bergman | publisher 1960 | pages "Bergman, 1960 p. 147">Bergman, 1960 p. 147. After giving away his strategy in the chess game, Block discovers that his listener is Death. Leaving the church, Block speaks with a young woman who has been condemned to be burnt alive for supposedly consorting with the Devil. Shortly thereafter, Jöns searches an abandoned village for water. He saves a servant girl  from being raped by a man robbing a corpse. He recognises the man as Raval, a theologian, who ten years ago had convinced Antonius to leave his wife and join a crusade to the Holy Land. Jöns promises to brand Raval on the face if they meet again. The girl joins Jöns. The trio ride into town, where the little acting troupe is performing. Skat introduces Jof and Mia to the crowd, then is enticed by Lisa, the blacksmith's wife, away for a tryst. They run off together. Jof and Mia's performance is interrupted by the arrival of a procession of flagellants. At a public house, Jof comes across Raval. Raval forces Jof to dance on the tables like a bear. Jöns appears and, true to his word, slices Raval's face.Bergman, 1960 p. 164-165 Block enjoys a country picnic of milk and wild strawberries gathered by Mia. Block says: "I'll carry this memory between my hands as if it were bowl filled to the brim with fresh milk...And it will be an adequate sign – it will be enough for me."Bergman, 1960 p. 195. Meanwhile, the little family sits out a storm, which Jof interprets to be "the Angel of Death and he's very big." The next morning, Jof, with his second sight, sees the knight and his followers being led away over the hills in a solemn dance of death. "They bear away from their light, while their strict lord Death bids them to dance... and the rain washes, and cleanses the salt of their tears from their cheeks."Bergman, 1960 p. 197 Mia chides him. "You with your visions and dreams."Down on his luck, professional gambler Dan Milner  accepts a mysterious job for $50,000. He is told to take a charter flight to Morro's Lodge, an isolated Mexican resort, where he will receive further instructions. Milner is attracted to the only other passenger, Lenore Brent . When he arrives, Milner finds that several guests at the luxurious Baja California resort have hidden agendas. He is disappointed to find that Lenore is the girlfriend of famous movie actor Mark Cardigan . Milner overhears two guests, self-proclaimed author Martin Krafft  and a man named Thompson , planning something which he suspects involves him. When Milner confronts them, he is given $10,000 and told that someone is on his way to Baja to see him. Seemingly drunk Bill Lusk  flies in, despite warnings of very dangerous storm conditions. Milner thinks he must be the contact, but when the two are alone, Lusk claims to be an undercover agent for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He tells Milner that the U.S. government suspects that underworld boss Nick Ferraro , deported to Italy four years earlier, is scheming to get back into the country posing as Milner. The two men are a close physical match and Milner is a loner, so no one is likely to miss him. Krafft turns out to be a plastic surgeon. Meanwhile, Cardigan's wife Helen  and his personal manager Gerald Hobson  show up. She had gone to Reno to get a divorce, not really intending to go through with it, as she is still fond of her husband. Hobson also thinks it is a poor idea because Cardigan's film contract is expiring and the bad publicity would make it hard to get a new one. With her own plans ruined, Lenore confesses to Milner that she is really just a singer looking to hook a wealthy spouse. Milner shows his softer side when he helps unhappy newlywed Jennie Stone  by cheating at poker to win back her husband's gambling losses from investment broker Myron Winton . Lusk sneaks into Thompson's room, but is caught and killed. Milner and Lenore stumble upon his body dumped on the beach. Milner is convinced that the dead man must have been telling the truth. That night, Thompson and his men take Milner to a newly arrived yacht. Milner is able to pass along a veiled plea for help to Lenore. She persuades Cardigan, who is tired of just pretending to be a hero, to help out. While the actor keeps the pursuing mobsters pinned down with his hunting rifle, Milner sneaks back onto the boat, knowing that the only way out of his mess is to deal with Ferraro once and for all. He is caught and brought to the crime lord. After killing two of the thugs and wounding and capturing Thompson, Cardigan mounts a rescue with the reluctant assistance of the Mexican police and a couple of the more adventurous guests. A gunfight breaks out aboard the boat, followed by a melee. Milner manages to break free and shoot Ferraro dead.The mailman has delivered a letter to "B. Bonny" , but when the truck pulls out, the exhaust from the tailpipe causes the letter to drift out of the mailbox and accidentally drop into Bugs Bunny's hole. Bugs, in the middle of his morning workout , eventually sees the letter and assumes it's for him. On reading the letter, he gets shocked: "Holy cats, I've been drafted!" Bugs' going through the Army induction center only causes some small reactions: -After asking a guard for directions, the guard assumes the Army has started inducting rabbits. -Before Bugs has his x-rays taken, a tall, rather lanky, tiny-headed person behind him looks at him and in response looks and chuckles at the audience. -When Bugs has his sx-rays taken, the doctor there assumes he's  been overworked. -Bugs also passes the eye exam with flying colors from the first letter right down to the microscopic "Reg. U.S. Pat. Off." disclaimer at the bottom of the chart. This joke is a reference to Bugs eating a steady diet carrots, rich in Vitamin A, which promotes good eyesight. . Once in the army, though, he quickly causes problems. His shoes are too big, so when his Sergeant calls for the men lined up to "about face," Bugs accidentally literally knocks the rest of the line over like bowling pins.  The Sergeant calls Bugs forward, where Bugs introduces himself as "Private Bugs Bunny reporting, your majesty!" The Sergeant doesn't believe it's really Bugs, and sarcastically refers to himself as "Sergeant Porky Pig." However, his Colonel, referring to himself as "Colonel Putty Tat", tells the Segeant that "General Tweety Pie was asking about you, Sergeant." When the Colonel inspects Bugs and orders him to "about face," Bugs knocks the Colonel over with his large shoes, much to the Sergeant's horror. As punishment, Bugs and the Sergeant — now noticeably demoted to three stripes  — take a long hike that sees both of them crawling back to their bunk (at "Camp Ono" — Ono, Pennsylvania also happens to be a [[Hamlet  in the middle of the night. Bugs, after peeling back his sweating shoes, finally lies down in his bunk, but is woken by Reveille seconds later. Bugs, intending to "moider that bugler," runs out with a baseball bat and a "whack" is heard off-screen. After Bugs decides to take a bath, it is shown that Bugs really smashed a record player. Later that morning, the Colonel is furiously looking for his helmet. The Sergeant finds Bugs taking his bath, using the Colonel's helmet as his bathtub. After Bugs makes a comment about cleanliness being next to godliness, the Sergeant throws Bugs out and runs off with the helmet full of soapy water — only to run into the Colonel. The Colonel then puts his helmet on - and gets splashed, blowing out bubbles afterwards. Now demoted to Corporal rank, Bugs' officer has Bugs "dress" the chickens for the Officer's Dinner Dance that night — though Bugs has them all dressed in tuxedoes.  Bugs then tries to nail a calendar to the wall above his bunk using a large ammunition shell . The Corporal runs up just in time to almost get hit with the shell when it goes off — but, much to the Corporal's shock, the shell pierces clean through the angry Colonel's helmet, making him look like the devil. Now reduced in rank to Private, Bugs' former drill sergeant asks the now-bandaged Bugs Bunny  what he's got against him, asking him why he doesn't listen to orders, hoping to reason with Bugs. After mentioning Bugs' various body parts, he finally panickedly realizes "Jumpin' Catfish, we've inducted a rabbit" and runs off to find the General. The General apologizes to Bugs for the mix-up, explaining that Congress didn't pass any laws saying that rabbits could be inducted into the military. Bugs, however, wants to do his part for the military. The General tells Bugs there is something he can do — Bugs is then seen testing ammunition shells  by striking the top with a mallet and marking them as 'DUD' when they don't explode. Bugs then tells the audience: "And just think! In 30 years, I can retire!"Slim  and Tubby  are American cops in London studying police tactics on the London Police Force. A newspaper reporter, Bruce Adams ([[Craig Stevens , gets into an altercation at Hyde Park that was instigated by belligerent men who do not believe in women's rights. Vicky Edwards , a suffragette gets caught up in the fray due to the fact that she was the leader of the rally gets arrested. Bruce, Vicky, Slim and Tubby all wind up in jail, where Slim and Tubby are kicked off the police force sfterwards. Dr. Henry Jekyll , Vicky's guardian, bails them out. Dr. Jekyll has been conducting home experiments in which he injects a potion and transforms into Mr. Hyde, a monster who murders a fellow doctor when he scoffed at Jekyll's experiments. Jekyll has more thoughts of murder when he notices that Vicky and Bruce are mutually attracted. Tubby and Slim decide that in order to get back on the police force they must capture Mr. Hyde. Tubby insists they catch a burglar instead and they chase Mr. Hyde into a music hall, believing him to be a burglar.They begin to chase him with Bruce at their side. Tubby traps Hyde in a wax museum, but by the time he brings the Inspector ([[Reginald Denny  and Slim to the scene, the monster has already reverted back to Dr. Jekyll. The "good" doctor then asks Slim and Tubby to escort him to his home, where Tubby drinks a potion that transforms him into a large mouse. Slim and Tubby bring news of Jekyll's activities to the Inspector, who refuses to believe them. Vicky announces her engagement to Bruce and Mr. Hyde reemerges, this time with intent to murder Vicky. Bruce saves her, but Hyde escapes. Tubby accidentally falls onto a serum-filled syringe, transforming Tubby into a Hyde-like monster as well. Bruce chases after Hyde, while Slim pursues Tubby, each believing still that there is only a single monster. Bruce ends up back at Jekyll's home, where Hyde falls from an upstairs window to his death, revealing to everyone his true identity when he reverts to normal form. Slim then brings Tubby  to the Inspector. Before reverting to human form, Tubby bites the Inspector and four officers, transforming them into monsters who begin to chase Slim and Tubby.In the 1700s, a beggar is tossed into London's Newgate jail, along with a pile of papers upon which his unfinished opera is scribbled. The beggar boasts to the other prisoners that his opera, unlike others of the day, is about a real person, the dashing highwayman Captain Macheath, who, dressed in a red coat, holds off the world with a pistol in each hand, seduces women with five notes of a tune, and generally leaps from misfortune. To the beggar's disappointment, the other prisoners point out that his hero Macheath is among them, in irons and behind bars, and Macheath, who is scheduled to be executed the next morning, admits that there is "no arguing with reality." Taking the first page of the opera, Macheath begins singing, and the beggar, encouraged by Macheath's good voice, urges him to continue, until the following story, the beggar's opera, is sung for the prison inmates: While riding to London, feeling merry and free, Macheath robs a carriage, and steals a kiss and a locket from a maiden. Later, in London, Macheath's wife, Polly Peachum, pines for him. Polly's parents, shopkeepers Mr. Peachum and his wife, are scandalized to learn from their employee Filch that Polly has secretly married the highwayman. To make the best of the situation, as they are always eager to make money, they urge her to lure Macheath into a trap and collect the reward for his capture. Meanwhile, outside of town, Macheath encounters a carriage ridden by Newgate's jailor Mr. Lockit, Lockit's daughter Lucy and Mrs. Trapes, whom Lockit is wooing. Lucy, who met Macheath when he was once imprisoned, scolds him for taking her virtue without making good on his promise to wed. When Macheath rides off, Mrs. Trapes suggests that Lucy betray him for the reward and give the money to her father. Later, during a tryst in a hayloft, Polly warns Macheath that her parents are mounting an ambush. Macheath escapes with Polly's help after a swashbuckling fight, then hides in a back room of a tavern, where he is unable to resist socializing with the prostitutes, whom he considers friends. However, prostitute Jenny Diver has been bribed by Peachum and Lockit to betray him, and with the help of her colleagues, Macheath is soon captured. From his jail cell, Macheath urges Lucy to steal the jail keys and set him free, promising to marry her in return, but then Polly shows up and he is forced to introduce the women to each other. During the night, Lucy steals the keys and releases him, but later Polly sneaks back and, finding Macheath gone from the cell, screams in anguish without thinking, thus drawing attention to his escape. Meanwhile, Macheath disguises himself in the stolen cape and gloves of a lord and slips into a gaming house to avoid making good his promise to unite with Lucy. However, the proprietor recognizes the cape and alerts Lockit and Peachum about the impostor wearing it. Back at the jail, Polly is accused of freeing Macheath and is locked in Lucy's room, where Lucy, after losing track of Macheath, attempts to drug her. When they hear the recaptured Macheath being returned to prison, Lucy and Polly proceed to Macheath's cell and demand that he choose between them. He refuses, as he will soon be hanged and sees no reason to disappoint either of them. The next morning, riding atop his coffin as it is carted through the streets to the gallows, Macheath waves farewell to the friendly crowd that has gathered to see him off. At the gallows, after kissing both Lucy and Polly goodbye, Macheath is blindfolded and awaits his fate, and the opera comes to its incomplete end. The real Macheath, who is still in the jail, protests that he should not have to hang twice. After pondering the complaint, the beggar agrees and yells for Macheath's reprieve. The rest of the prisoners join in the chant and mob the turnkey, who comes to investigate the ruckus, allowing Macheath to escape. The highwayman steals a horse from the cart containing his coffin and when safely out of London, sings that his freedom has been returned because of a beggar's opera.Jim Douglas  is a rancher who has been pursuing the four outlaws who murdered his wife six months earlier. He rides into the town of Rio Arriba, where four men, Alfonso Parral , Bill Zachary , Ed Taylor  and Lujan , fitting the description are in jail awaiting execution, so that he can see the hanging. The town has issued instructions to only allow the hangman  to enter, so Jim is taken to Sheriff Eloy Sanchez's  office to state his business. The town has never had an execution before, so they have brought in a man from outside town to do the job. The sheriff allows Jim into the jail to see the men. They claim they had never seen him before, but he has the face of a hunter. In town Jim meets Josefa Velarde . He met her five years previously in New Orleans but hasn't seen her since. Through their conversation we learn that she was husband hunting when they met before. She has been looking after her father's ranch since he died. Jim reveals to her that he has a daughter . Other inhabitants of the town include businessman Gus Steimmetz, his daughter Emma  and her fiance Tom . The executioner, Simms, arrives the same day. He drinks with Jim, but is generally unfriendly. The sheriff invites Simms to see the men he is to hang, but Simms holds off until the town is at church for a pre-execution mass. While pretending to evaluate the men he is to hang, Simms stabs the sheriff in the back. The sheriff shoots and kills Simms in the struggle, but inmates strangle the sheriff unconscious and take his keys. The four escape and capture Emma as a hostage. The wounded sheriff comes into the church during the service and tells the townspeople that the prisoners have escaped. The townspeople form a posse to ride out immediately. They enlist Jim's aid to track them down, but Jim waits until morning. The posse is held up at a pass when one of the four men sets up as a sniper. Jim catches up with the posse the next day while they are held up trying to dislodge one of the four. Jim corners Parral, who pleads for his life before Jim kills him. Then Jim ropes Taylor by the feet and hangs him upside-down from a tree. The two remaining men reach the house of John Butler , a prospector and Jim's neighbor. Zachary kills Butler and Lujan steals the sack of coins he tried to run off with, but they see someone approaching in the distance and leave in a panic, leaving Emma behind. The people coming turn out to be Josefa and Jim, arriving from different directions. Jim identifies the body, and the posse arrives and finds Emma, raped by Bill Zachary, in the house. Jim tells the posse to ride on while he goes back to his ranch to get fresh horses. However, when Jim arrives home, he finds that the fugitives have taken his last horses. Leaving Josefa with his daughter, he rejoins the posse. When they arrive at the Mexican border, Jim goes on alone. He finds Zachary in a bar and kills him in a gunfight. He then goes on to the home of the fourth man Lujan. When Jim shows a photo of his wife to Lujan, Lujan insists he has never seen the woman before, and recalls that he and his companions rode past the Douglas ranch on their way from the border. Pointing to the sack, Jim states that the men who killed his wife stole the sack containing the family's life savings. When Lujan tells Jim that he took the bag from Butler's dead hand, Jim realizes that Butler killed his wife. Jim sees that he had been pursuing men who had nothing to do with his wife's death. Indeed, when he showed each of them a picture of his wife, all of them denied ever having seen her. Jim realizes that he is no better than the men he has been pursuing, having killed in cold blood. He returns to town and goes to the church to beg forgiveness. The priest  says that he did what he felt was right and to his credit, does not take refuge in the fact that they were outlaws anyway. Josefa then arrives with Jim's daughter, and as they exit the church together, the sheriff, who has recovered, thanks Jim for his service to the town.The brothers Santos and Rufino Peralta  are used like animals in the workplace at the Parana Stop. There they encounter enormous hardship and inhuman conditions of work as a consequence of the immense greed of the managers. A worker's rebellion is maturing, to the point that it is developed into trade union of workers who respond against their grief. Finally, the workers plot a counterattack and punish their corrupt employers.Chuck gets a job working for a newspaper. When promoted, he has to go under cover in the state prison to dig up some information on some of the inmates. When one of the inmates beats Chuck up and lands him in the hospital, it's up to Slip, Sach, and Butch to finish Chuck's job. Slip decides that he and the boys should commit a crime so that they can be sent to jail. Another reporter, Cy Bowman, agrees to inform the penitentiary that the boys are actually working under cover for the newspaper once they get arrested. However, Bowman does not actually keep his promise. Now the trio are forced to spend what they think is a short sentence in jail. While there, the boys dig up some information on Percival P. Lannigan and some other inmates who have been living it up in jail, unknown to the warden. Lannigan soon gets word that Slip and his pals are under cover for Chuck , and intends to have Chuck and Louie killed. The boys eventually expose the inmates scam and turn them over to the warden, who pardons them and arranges for their release.The movie follows the staff of the Army weekly magazine, Yank, who are among the first American troops in Tokyo after Japan's surrender. They are given the difficult task of producing an issue of the magazine in three days. Short on ideas and having to meet the deadline, they enter Japan's black market and come across con artist Joe Butterfly. Butterfly shows them the high life letting them live in a mansion complete with beautiful girls.Bogart portrays Glenn Griffin, the leader of a trio of escaped convicts who invade the Daniel Hilliard family's suburban home in Indianapolis and hold four members of a family hostage. There they await the arrival of Griffin's girlfriend, who is bringing the three fugitives funds to aid them in their escape. Police organize a statewide manhunt for the escapees and eventually discover the distraught family's plight. Bogart's character menaces and torments the Hilliards and threatens to kill them, and an unfortunate garbage collector who happens upon the situation is murdered. At the climax of the film, Hilliard  throws Griffin  out of the house by holding Griffin's loaded gun on him. Griffin is subsequently gunned down when he hurls his unloaded gun at a police spotlight and tries to make a break for it.A young man comes to Seoul from the country in search of his older brother, who turns out to be making a living with a group of thieves who boost goods from the U.S. Army base and sell them on the black market. Both brothers become romantically involved with the same prostitute.Synopsis from {{cite web}}In August 1914 a consignment of Vickers machine guns are stolen off a Royal Navy ship, HMS Marlin. An RN Lieutenant aboard the ship goes undercover as a white hunter through British East Africa to find the weapons before they get into the hands of the Germans and alter the balance of power in Africa.John Conroy, a crusading district attorney, is tasked to crack down on a crime syndicate, which proves more dangerous because the mob has many city officials under their control. He's assisted by a newspaper man, Jerry McKibbon, who doesn't think Conroy is tough enough to handle this almost impossible assignment. McKibbon finds his efforts are also compromised by political corruption. McKibbon is eventually shot down by an out-of-town assassin who was hired to kill him at a boxing match. The film is not related to the 1977 ballet drama The Turning Point.Captain Haddock from the Bunco Squad  serves as narrator, telling the viewing audience about "The Case of the Gullible Woodpecker." Woody  inherits a fortune and Con-man Buzz Buzzard  decides to use every trick he can to swindle him out of his new wealth . Woody gets it back in the end when Buzz crashes through the ceiling and lands in a filing cabinet in the office of Captain Haddock, who "closes the file" on the case.Hondo Lane  arrives on foot at a ranch where Mrs. Angie Lowe  and her son Johnny  have been deserted by her husband for months. Part Apache, Hondo tries to avoid confrontation with war chief Vittorio , but finally bails out inexperienced West Point graduate Cavalry Lieutenant  and old friend scout Buffalo . When Hondo finally admits he had to kill Mr Lowe  in self-defense, Angie reveals her husband was a gambler, unfaithful, unkind, and only married her for her inheritance. She disagrees with Hondo's devotion to "truth", calls his desire to confess to Johnny selfish, and asks to leave with him and the remains of a wagon train heading towards his farm that looks just like hers.It is February 1929 in the city of Chicago. Two friends who are struggling jazz musicians, Joe , a saxophone player, irresponsible gambler and ladies' man, and Jerry , a sensible double-bass player, accidentally witness the Saint Valentine's Day massacre. When the gangsters, led by "Spats" Colombo , spot them, the two have to run for their lives. Penniless, freezing cold, and in a rush to get out of town, the two musicians take a job in a women's band headed to Miami. Disguised as women and calling themselves "Josephine" and "Daphne", they board a train with "Sweet Sue and her Society Syncopators", an "all-girl" band and their male manager, Beanstock. Before they board the train, Joe and Jerry have already noticed Sugar Kane , the band's vocalist and ukulele player, marveling over how she walks "like jello on springs," as they struggle along in their high heels not at all sure they will be able to "pass" as women. As they board the train however, "Daphne" experiences the kind of sexual harassment common to women when Beanstock feels "her" up. Both Joe and Jerry become enamored of Sugar, and compete for her affection while maintaining their disguises. Sugar confides that she has sworn off of male saxophone players, who have stolen her heart in the past and left her with "the fuzzy end of the lollipop." She has now set her sights on finding a sweet, bespectacled millionaire in Florida. During the forbidden drinking and partying on the train with all the women in the band, "Josephine" and "Daphne" become intimate friends with Sugar, and continually have to struggle to remember that they are "girls" and cannot make a pass at her. Once in Miami, Joe woos Sugar by assuming a second disguise as a millionaire named "Junior", the heir to Shell Oil, while mimicking Cary Grant's voice and feigning disinterest in Sugar. An actual millionaire, an aging mama's boy, the much-married Osgood Fielding III ([[Joe E. Brown , tries repeatedly to pick up "Daphne", who repeatedly rebuffs him. One night Osgood invites "Daphne" for a champagne supper on his yacht. Joe convinces "Daphne" to keep Osgood occupied onshore, so that "Junior" can take Sugar to Osgood's yacht, passing it off as his. Once on the yacht, "Junior" uses metaphors to explain to Sugar that unfortunately, due to psychological trauma, he is impotent and frigid, but that he would certainly marry anyone who could change that. Sugar tries desperately to arouse some sexual response in "Junior", and begins to succeed. Meanwhile, Jerry and Osgood dance the tango till dawn. When Joe and Jerry get back to the hotel, "Daphne" happily explains that Osgood has proposed and that "she" has accepted. Joe finally convinces Jerry that he can't actually marry Osgood. Joe then breaks Sugar's heart by telling her that he, "Junior", has to marry a woman of his father's choosing and move to Venezuela. Many mobsters arrive at the hotel for a conference honoring the "Friends of Italian Opera". Spats and his gang from Chicago eventually recognize Joe and Jerry as the witnesses to the Valentine's Day murders. After several humorous but potentially lethal chases, Joe and Jerry end up witnessing additional mob killings, this time of Spats and his crew. Once again Joe and Jerry have to run for their lives. Joe, dressed as "Josephine", sees Sugar onstage singing sadly that she will never love again. He kisses her before he leaves, and Sugar suddenly understands that Joe is both "Josephine" and "Junior". Sugar runs from the stage at the end of her performance and is able to jump into the launch from Osgood's yacht just as it is leaving the dock with Joe, Jerry and Osgood in it. Joe tells Sugar that he is not good enough for her, that she would be getting the "fuzzy end of the lollipop" yet again, but Sugar wants him anyway. Jerry, for his part, tries to explain to Osgood that "Daphne" cannot marry him, offering a series of objections: "Daphne" smokes a lot; "Daphne" can't get married in Osgood's mother's dress ; "Daphne" sadly "can never have children." Osgood dismisses all this information as insignificant; he loves "Daphne" and is determined to marry her. Finally, exasperated, Jerry removes his wig and says in his male voice, "I'm a man!", but a smiling Osgood overrides this final barrier using the film's memorable last line, "Well... nobody's perfect!"The grandson of Victor Frankenstein, Oliver , is hiding away as a laboratory assistant for the gentle Prof. Morton . While Dr. Morton pursues a pet project, Dr. Frankenstein secretly works his own experiments on his benefactor's niece, Trudy Morton . Although these experiments temporarily disfigure Trudy's face and cause her to wander aimlessly at night, they are only a build-up to Oliver's greater goal of recreating life. With the aid of one of his father's former assistants, Oliver constructs a female monster from the body parts of various murdered people and begins to deal a horrible fate upon any who dare stand in the way of his desires.An anti-communist film about a plot to stir up pro-communist sympathies through an act of terrorism. A young village man foils the plot by infiltrating the communist camp and blowing it up instead.Synopsis from {{cite web}}Boris Karloff plays the role of Baron Victor Von Frankenstein, who suffered at the hands of the Nazis as punishment for not cooperating with them during World War II. Horribly disfigured, he nevertheless continues his work as a scientist. Needing funds to support his experiments, the Baron allows a television crew to shoot a made-for-television horror film about his monster-making family at his castle in Germany. This arrangement gives the Baron enough money to buy an atomic reactor, which he uses to create a living being, modeled after his own likeness before he had been tortured by Nazis. When the Baron runs out of body parts for his work, however, he proceeds to kill off members of the crew, and even his faithful butler, for more spare parts.Dr. Jeremiah Morley  is concerned about an imminent nuclear war. He organizes an expedition of scientists and has them use an atomic-powered machine, capable of drilling through earth and stone, known as the Cyclotram, to find an underground environment where people could escape from nuclear obliteration. The expedition, consisting of Jim Bannon, Marilyn Nash, Otto Waldis, Tom Handley and Dick Cogan begins, after government funding has fallen through and they are bailed out at the last minute with private financing from a newspaper heir Bruce Kellogg, who insists on going with them as a lark. Romantic rivalry develops between Bannon and Kellogg for Nash, and two lives are lost to perils of the expedition, but in the end, the scientists accomplish their goal and find an enormous expanse with plentiful air, its own ocean and phosphorus light. However, the lab rabbits they have brought with them give birth to dead rabbits. Ms Nash discovers through an autopsy that the underground world has rendered the rabbits, and hence any other life form sterile. Dr Morley is depressed by the news and when an underground volcano erupts he doesn't enter the cyclotram and perishes. The survivors enter the underground sea and find themselves rising up to the surface of the upper world in the ocean, fortunately near a tropical island. Many of the plot elements seem to have been reused in The Core.In the town of Rio Bravo, Texas, sheriff's deputy Dude , who has acquired the contemptuous nickname "Borrachón", enters a saloon to get a drink. Joe Burdette , brother of rancher Nathan Burdette, tosses a silver dollar into a spittoon at Dude's feet. As Dude reaches for the spittoon, Presidio County, Texas Sheriff John T. Chance  appears and kicks the spittoon away, looking at Dude with pity. Dude whacks Chance with a piece of wood, knocking the sheriff out cold. With two men holding Dude upright, Joe begins punching him, then shoots and kills an unarmed bystander who tries to intervene.  Joe leaves the saloon and heads to his brother's saloon, where a bloody Chance arrests Joe for the murder of the bystander. When another patron draws his gun on Chance, causing a stalemate, Dude shoots the gun out of the patron's hand, Chance slugs Joe with his rifle, and the sheriff and his deputy drag Joe off to jail. While the funeral for the unarmed man is being held, Chance's friend Pat Wheeler  and his supply train stop in town, with a young gunslinger, Colorado Ryan , riding guard. Wheeler informs Chance that Nathan Burdette's men stopped him outside of the town, meaning that the town is "bottled up" to prevent Chance from getting Joe to Presidio or any assistance in. Inside the jail, Stumpy , Chance's other deputy, keeps watch over the jail and Joe. Chance takes a delivered package to the proprietor of the hotel, Carlos Robante (red lingerie for his wife, Consuela . A mysterious woman, Feathers , arrives for a night. She arrived on a stage coach whose wheel has broken , which delays its departure. Dude and Chance patrol the town, when Carlos stops the sheriff, saying Wheeler was talking too much about Chance needing help. Chance implores Wheeler to stop, as it will draw attention from the wrong people. Wheeler and Chance also discuss Dude; about three years earlier Dude was a top-notch gunman until he "met a girl on the stage" who was no good and they left together. Six months later Dude came back without her, drunk , but Dude has stopped drinking due to the crisis. Wheeler suggests that Colorado could be of assistance but Colorado politely declines, saying he wants to "mind his own business." Feathers leaves a poker game a winner, Chance follows her up to her room and confronts her as a card cheat, with his evidence four missing aces from the deck of cards being used in the game, and a handbill indicating she was wanted for card cheating. Feathers confesses she is the girl in the poster but denies cheating, and challenges Chance to search her for the missing cards. Colorado arrives saying another participant in the game is the real cheat and plans to confront him with Chance's acquiescence. Colorado is proven right, and the real card cheat is sent out on the next stage. Chance admits he was wrong but refuses to apologize. As Wheeler is walking back to the hotel, he is shot dead by a Burdette man hiding in the stable. Colorado offers to help but is angrily turned away by Chance who says "you had a chance to get in this and you didn't want it." Chance and Dude flush out the shooter, who escapes into Nathan's saloon. Dude believes the man had muddy boots, but everyone in the bar has clean boots. To suggest Dude is a drunk who needs a drink, one patron throws a silver dollar into a spittoon. Dude notices blood dripping into a drink on the bar and takes one shot into the loft, killing Wheeler's murderer. Dude then gets retribution on the patron who threw the dollar coin in the spittoon by making him go get it. Chance goes back to the hotel to sleep, and unbeknownst to him, Feathers stands guard at the door to keep him safe, then returns to her room when he awakens. Chance asks Feathers why she did that but she does not say. Chance insists that she should leave on the stage coach. Nathan ([[John Russell  later arrives in town with his men, intent on seeing his brother Joe. Dude is standing guard and confiscating all guns before entering town, and Nathan agrees to turn in their guns until they leave. Nathan sees Joe, and after a few angry words between the land baron and Chance, is told in no uncertain terms if he attempts to overrun the jail his brother would be "accidentally" shot before they reached him. Nathan then leaves to visit his saloon, instructing the band there to play the Deguello  non-stop. Carlos says Feathers will not get on the stage coach, and when Chance goes to see her she tells the sheriff that she does not want to leave, then gives Chance a kiss. After Colorado visits the jail to tell Chance the meaning of the song Nathan is playing, Chance gives Dude his guns back  as well as some clothes he left behind. Dude changes clothes and gets a shave, then returns to the jail while Chance and Feathers get better acquainted. Suddenly a shot rings out and Chance races to the jail, only to find Stumpy had shot at a shadow  in front of the jail. Dude and Stumpy exchange angry words, then Chance tells Dude they've been "pampering him too much" and to get some sleep. The next morning, while Dude is standing guard at the town entryway, four Burdette men attack him from behind and tie him up in a stable. Approaching Chance on the street in front of the hotel with a fake injury, they draw guns and corner him , and demand that he release Joe. Inside the hotel, acting on Colorado's instructions, Feathers throws a flowerpot through a window a moment after Colorado steps out on the porch, distracting the Burdette men. Colorado throws Chance's rifle to him and the two men shoot the four Burdette hands. Chance races down the street, finds Dude tied up in the stable and frees him. Dude, frustrated by his performance and recovering from his extended drunkenness, resigns as deputy. Colorado agrees to join Chance as deputy and then Dude reconsiders quitting after hearing the Deguello song, reminding him why he was there. The group decides to hole up in the jail, as it will take several more days for the United States Marshal to arrive to take Joe to Presidio. Dude and Chance go to the hotel to round up additional supplies, but Carlos and Consuela are captured by Burdette men, and trick Chance into charging down the stairs, falling over a trip-wire. Dude and Feathers also are captured. Chance is given a choice--take the men to the jail to let Joe out, or the men will arrange a trade with Stumpy for Dude and Chance. Dude implores Chance to let Joe out, saying that Stumpy has no food or water to hold out very long. Chance agrees, and three men go to the jail. Dude's story was a ruse, as Colorado is with Stumpy and the three of them shoot the three Burdette men. The remaining Burdette men at the hotel take Dude and offer to trade him for Joe. Chance agrees, and the trade is made at a warehouse. But Dude bum-rushes Joe and they scuffle while a gunfight erupts. Dude knocks Joe out and Stumpy  finds some dynamite in one of Wheeler's wagons, and throws it at the building Burdette's men are in. The exploding dynamite in front of the building causes Burdette to surrender. With the Burdette men in jail, Chance goes to see Feathers who is wearing black tights to work at the hotel. Chance threatens to arrest Feathers, saying that only he should see her in those tights. Feathers takes this as an admission that Chance loves her, and they kiss.A pair of agents from the Office of Scientific Investigation  are sent to investigate a local appliance store, where all of the clocks have stopped at the same time, and metal items in the store have been magnetized. The source of this is traced to an office located directly above the store, where scientific equipment is found, along with a dead body. There are also signs of radioactivity, but the cause of the difficulties itself is clearly no longer in the room, or the immediate area. Investigation and request for citizen input eventually lead to an airborne flight carrying a scientist, who has developed signs of radiation sickness related to something in a heavy briefcase he carries and clutches irrationally. Before dying, he confesses to have developed an artificial radioactive isotope, serranium, which was bombarded with alpha particles for 200 hours . Unfortunately, his so-far microscopic creation has taken on a life of its own, literally: it must absorb energy from its surroundings every 11 hours, and in the process doubles its size each time. The OSI officials realize that, with its rate of growth, it will be a matter of only days before it becomes large enough to affect the Earth's rotation on its axis and spin it out of orbit. They also discover that the isotope is impervious to any known means of destroying it or even rendering it inert. The only answer appears to be to use a Canadian experimental power generator being constructed in a cavern under the ocean, with the hopes of bombarding the element with so much energy in one surge that it neutralizes itself with its own "gluttony". The two governments agree on this proposal, and the isotope is transferred to the project, dubbed the Deltatron, but there is a last minute objection from the engineer in charge of the project. With no time to lose, the lead OSI agent commandeers the machine and barely escapes, risking his own life to activate it before sealing the cavern-filling, multi-story device off from the rest of the underground operation, which is filled with project workers. The isotope is successfully stopped, as evidenced by the disappearance of the trace magnetism which it has produced following every energy absorption, although the Deltatron is also destroyed in the process.In post-war Berlin, British Major Haven  recruits members of a returning German demolitions unit, Hans Globke , Peter Tillig , Wolfgang Sulke , Franz Loeffler , Karl Wirtz  and Eric Koertner , to defuse unexploded Allied bombs scattered throughout the city. Delighted by the well-paying position, Karl bets Eric that he will outlive him. Although initially taken aback by the wager, the other men soon agree that half of their salaries will go to the survivors of the dangerous mission in three months' time. The British provide the men new uniforms and equipment, and assign Frau Bauer  as their liaison. Karl volunteers to lead the unit, but the men vote for the reluctant Eric instead. Later, Karl and Eric move into an Allied-approved boarding house run by pretty young widow Margot Hoefler , a French woman whose German husband died during the war. Several weeks go by in which the men successfully and safely defuse numerous bombs; then the men are stunned when young Globke is killed while defusing a British 1000-pound bomb. Suspecting that the bomb has double fuses, Eric asks Haven to request information from British armaments on its design. At the boardinghouse, Karl continually flirts with Margot, to Eric's annoyance. One evening when Margot loudly protests Karl's drunken advances, Eric bursts into Margot's room to help her and Karl retreats, ridiculing Eric for his motives. Deducing that Eric disapproves of her behavior, Margot explains that her uneasy situation as a traitor to the French and an outsider to the Germans has left her jaded and willing to take happiness wherever she can find it. When Eric remains critical, Margot accuses him of denying his own desires. A few days later, Frau Bauer receives a report that Tillig has been trapped under a live bomb by the partial collapse of a ruined building. With the other men away on assignments, Eric and Karl race to the site, and despite Tillig's protests, inspect the bomb. After Eric defuses the bomb safely, a doctor arrives and upon examining Tillig declares there is no chance for his survival. Refusing to accept the pronouncement, Eric hurries outside to request equipment to lift the bomb, but as Karl expresses his doubts, the building collapses on Tillig and the doctor. Distraught, Eric returns to the boardinghouse where he seeks solace from Margot. The next day, Eric takes Margot to another ruined section of the city and reveals that before the war he was an architect. Eric struggles to conceal his growing feelings for Margot, admitting that he is confused about becoming romantically involved while his life is in danger daily. Back at headquarters, Haven tells Eric that because of the post-war chaos, they have been unable to gather information on the thousand-pound bombs. When Haven discloses that he knows of Eric's former profession, Karl, unaware that his colleague was an esteemed architect, expresses surprise. Eric tells Haven that he was forced into demolitions when he fell into disfavor for making anti-Nazi political statements. Karl and the other men were all pressed into demolitions as punishment for some indiscretion and all vowed to do everything they could to survive the war. Mocking Eric's growing anxiety, Karl urges him to quit the unit and give up the wager, but Eric refuses. A month before the wager's deadline, Sulke is killed while defusing a bomb. Eric, Loeffler and the men agree to adhere to the terms of the wager but discuss giving the salaries to Sulke's widow and child. When Eric presents the proposal to Karl, he scoffs at the suggestion, explaining that his motto has always been to look after himself. The next day Loeffler is called to defuse a bomb found in a canal. Later, Eric learns that Loeffler has drowned in the attempt. That afternoon when Margot urges Eric to give up the bet and quit the unit, Eric explains he must know whether he can triumph over Karl's greed and selfishness. A few days later, Karl is assigned to defuse a thousand-pound bomb and Eric joins him at the site to make an inspection. The men discuss a strategy to avoid the potential second fuse, then Eric departs, but worriedly hovers nearby. After removing the top of the bomb, Karl gently handles the cap then abruptly calls for help, claiming the detonator pin has slipped. Eric rushes in and provides a pencil, which he offers to hold in place of the pin while Karl retrieves his tools from the landing. Moments later, Eric is stunned when the rope Karl used earlier to remove the top pulls tautly across his hand, forcing him to release the pencil. The bomb does not explode, however, and Eric realizes that Karl has tried to kill him. Eric punches Karl in the face. Once Karl gets back on his feet, he says, "Guess it's still my bomb." Eric replies, "Still your bomb." Eric then gets his coat and walks away. Karl resumes defusing the bomb. Once Eric is a safe distance away, the bomb explodes, killing Karl. The film closes after saluting the efforts of the ordnance removal teams, which have allowed Berlin to rebuild.An aircraft is bound for Boca Grande, somewhere in South America, making a pick-up stop in Central America. Passengers: Jud Ellis  is escorting his fiancé Louise Melhorn ; repentant political assassin Vasquel  is being transported back to the proper authorities by detective Crimp ; mobster Pete Bostwick ([[Jesse White  is accompanying a little boy named Tommy, whose father is Bostwick's boss; an elderly couple, Professor and Mrs. Spanger , are apparently on vacation; and jilted blonde bombshell Rena , on her way to a South American casino, is vying for Ellis's attention. After a temporary stop in Panama, Professor Spanger wishes to order “arroz con pollo” at a local restaurant. His wife prevents him from ordering a dish not “meant for human consumption;” the dish is merely Spanish for chicken and rice. During its flight, the aircraft enters a rough storm and is dangerously jostled about. A portable oxygen tank is loosened from its mooring, and crashes through one of the fuselage doors, killing the flight attendant, Maria Alvarez  who is thrown out of the aircraft. The crew is then forced to make an emergency landing in the jungle, aircraft intact. Crimp tries to take charge of the group, but the captain stops him. Momentarily, Ellis becomes psychologically unhinged, and tries to force himself upon Louise, but co-pilot Brooks steps in to dissuade him. Late at night, Crimp renders Bostwick temporarily unconscious, steals the gun he was guarding, then flees into the jungle. Later, the aircraft is repaired, but soon after searching and finding an errant Tommy, Bostwick and Rena discover Crimp’s headless body. Soon, local head hunters shoot Bostwick dead by poison dart. The crew and passengers decide the best escape strategy; since there is only one good engine to help the aircraft fly over the mountains, the human cargo will have to be exceptionally light, so some will have to stay behind. With gun in hand, Vasquel forcibly takes charge of the matter, and chooses those that will be able to return to civilization; Ellis tries to stop him and is shot dead. The aircraft manages to take off, dropping off a cliff and then narrowly clearing the mountains. The elderly Spanger couple choose to stay behind, facing a horrible death from the head hunters. With only two bullets left in his gun, Vasquel shoots the Spanger couple and prays for forgiveness as he waits for his own death.John Robie  is a notorious but retired jewel thief or "cat burglar," nicknamed "The Cat," who now tends to his vineyards in the French Riviera. A series of robberies that closely resemble his in style leads the police to believe that the Cat is up to his old tricks again. They come to arrest him, and he adeptly gives them the slip. He immediately seeks refuge with his old gang from his days in the French Resistance, a group of ex-cons whose patriotic work led to grants of parole that depend on them keeping their noses clean. Bertani, Foussard, and the others are all under a cloud while the Cat is at large, and they blame Robie. Still, when the police arrive at Bertani’s restaurant, Foussard’s daughter Danielle  spirits her old flame to safety. Robie's plan is to prove his innocence by catching the new cat burglar in the act, so he enlists the aid of an insurance man of Bertani's acquaintance, H. H. Hughson , an Englishman who reluctantly obtains a list of the most expensive jewels currently on the Riviera. The first owners listed are Jessie Stevens  and her daughter Francie . Robie strikes up an acquaintance with them — delighting Jessie even as Francie offers a pretense of modesty, while Danielle bares her jealous claws. Francie is not afraid of a little fun. Although she sees through Robie’s cover as an American industrialist, the considerable charms of this thief are worth catching. She dangles before him her jewels, teases him with steamy tales of rooftop escapades, exposes herself as a feline of a special breed: an accomplice who might share his passion and be available to his sordid desires. Fireworks fill the night and can even be seen in the sky. The next morning, Jessie discovers her jewels are stolen, and Francie suddenly feels that Robie has taken advantage of her. She accuses him of using her to steal her mother's jewelry. The police are called and he is back on the lam. To catch the new burglar Robie stakes out an estate at night and finds himself struggling with an attacker who loses his footing and tumbles over a cliff. It is Foussard, who dies in the fall. The police chief publicly announces that Foussard was the jewel thief, but, as Robie points out to him in the presence of the abashed Hughson, this would have been impossible: Foussard had a prosthetic leg and could not possibly climb on rooftops. Robie's quiet attendance at Foussard’s funeral is marred by Danielle's open accusation that he is responsible for her father's death. Outside the graveyard, Francie apologizes to Robie and confesses her love for him. She arranges to help him attend a masquerade ball the coming weekend. At the ball, Francie is resplendent in a gold gown, Robie unrecognizable behind the mask of a Moor. The police hover nearby. Upstairs, the cat burglar silently cleans out several jewel boxes. When Jessie asks the Moor to go get her "heart pills," Robie’s voice tips off his identity to the authorities. Upon his return the police wait out Francie and the Moor as they dance the night away. Finally, Francie and the Moor go to her room, and the mask is removed: it is Hughson, switched to conceal Robie’s exit. On the rooftop Robie lurks. His patience is finally rewarded when he is joined by another figure in black. But just as his pursuit begins, the police throw a spotlight on him. Again he flees and shots ring out, but he manages to corner his foe with jewels in hand. Unmasked, his nemesis turns out not to be a man after all. Danielle is "The Cat," and she confesses that she has been working for her father and Bertani. Robie speeds back to his vineyard and Francie races after to convince him that she has a place in his life. He agrees, but seems less than thrilled about the arrangement including her mother.A local charity has raised sixteen hundred dollars and entrusted the boys with it. They are then robbed of the cash by two men dressed as sailors. Believing them to be real sailors, and in order to catch them, they enlist in the Navy under fake names. They spend a year at sea, but cannot locate the thieves. However, Sach is able to win two thousand dollars gambling and the boys return to the Bowery. It is there that they are robbed by the same two men, but with the Navy captain helping, they are able to capture the crooks. They return to the navy office to receive their commendations, but are mistakenly re-enlisted!Nigel Dennis  is a blackmailer who threatens to publish embarrassing secrets in his magazine The Naked Truth. After attempting to blackmail a famous scientist , and an MP , his latest targets are Lord Henry Mayley , television host Sonny MacGregor , writer Flora Ransom , and model Melissa Right . Several of them decide independently that murder would be a better solution than paying. However, it is Mayley who by sheer bad luck nearly ends up the victim of both MacGregor's and Ransom's schemes. The four eventually join forces and try again. That attempt also fails, but Dennis is then arrested for an earlier crime. When Dennis threatens to reveal all at his trial, Mayley comes up with a scheme to break him out of prison and send him to South America, with the help of hundreds of Dennis's other victims. They phone in numerous fake calls for help, distracting the London police, while Mayley, MacGregor, and MacGregor's reluctant assistant Porter , disguised as policemen, wisk Dennis away. Knocking Dennis unconscious periodically, they finally end up in the fully enclosed cabin of a blimp on the way to a rendezvous with an outbound ship. To their dismay, when he comes to, Dennis refuses to go along with their plan, as he in fact never wanted to reveal any of their secrets in front of court. He was, in fact, winning the trial anyway. He reveals the evidence were his copies of "The Naked Truth", who were destroyed by the plotters earlier, unintentionally freeing Dennis of all charges. Unaware of where he is, and happy to have outsmarted his opponents again, he then steps out for some air and plummets to the ocean below. However, when MacGregor celebrates by shooting his pistol, it punctures the blimp, which comically shoots away into the distance.{{plot}} Roger O. Thornhill, a twice-divorced Madison Avenue advertising executive , is mistaken for "George Kaplan", and is kidnapped by Valerian ([[Adam Williams  and Licht . The two take him to the house of Lester Townsend on Long Island. There he is interrogated by a man he assumes to be Townsend, but who is actually foreign spy Phillip Vandamm . He orders his right-hand man Leonard  to get rid of him. Thornhill is forced to drink bourbon in an attempt to stage a fatal road accident. However, he pushes one thug out of the car and drives off. After a perilous drive, he is arrested for drunk driving. He is unable to get the police, the judge, or even his mother  to believe what happened to him, especially when a woman at Townsend's residence says he got drunk at her dinner party; she also remarks that Lester Townsend is a United Nations diplomat. Thornhill and his mother go to Kaplan's hotel room. While in the room, Thornhill answers the phone; it is one of Vandamm's henchmen. Narrowly avoiding recapture, Thornhill takes a taxi to the General Assembly building of the United Nations, where Townsend is due to deliver a speech. Thornhill meets Townsend face to face and is surprised to find that the diplomat is not the man who interrogated him. Before they can talk any more, Valerian throws a knife, striking Townsend in the back. He falls forward, dead, into Thornhill's arms. Without thinking, Thornhill removes the knife, making it appear to onlookers that he is the killer. He flees.  Knowing that Kaplan has a reservation at a Chicago hotel the next day, Thornhill sneaks onto the 20th Century Limited. On board, he meets Eve Kendall , who hides Thornhill from policemen searching the train. She asks about his personalized matchbooks with the initials ROT; he says the O stands for nothing. Unbeknownst to Thornhill, Eve is working with Vandamm and Leonard, who are in another compartment. Upon arriving in Chicago, Thornhill borrows a porter's uniform and carries Eve's luggage through the crowd, eluding police. Eve lies to Thornhill, telling him she has arranged a meeting with Kaplan.  Thornhill travels by bus to an isolated crossroads, with flat countryside all around and only scarce traffic in northwest Indiana an hour and half drive south of Chicago. Another man  is dropped off at the bus stop, but he turns out to be unconnected to Thornhill. Moments later, the plane turns toward Thornhill. To his terror, it dives at him, passing him at an altitude of only a few feet, forcing him to throw himself to the ground. Thornhill flees to the cover of a cornfield, but the plane dusts it with pesticide, forcing him out. Desperate, Thornhill steps in front of a speeding gasoline tank truck, making it stop. The plane crashes into the tank truck and explodes. Thornhill returns to the hotel, where he is surprised to learn that Kaplan had already checked out when Eve claimed to have spoken to him. Suspicious, he goes to Eve's room to question her. She lets him get cleaned up as she leaves. From the impression of a message written on a notepad, Thornhill learns her destination: an art auction. There, he finds Vandamm, Leonard, and Eve. Vandamm purchases a pre-Columbian Tarascan statue and departs. Thornhill tries to follow, only to find all exits covered by Vandamm's men. He escapes from them by placing nonsensical bids, making such a nuisance of himself that the police have to be called to remove him. Thornhill tries to remain safely in police custody and identifies himself as the fugitive wanted for Townsend's murder, but the officers are ordered to take him to Midway Airport instead of a police station. He meets the Professor , an international British spymaster who is after Vandamm. The Professor reveals that George Kaplan does not exist: he was invented to distract Vandamm from the real government agent – Eve, who was already in a relationship with Vandamm when alerted by the Professor to Vandamm's espionage activity. As Eve's life is now in danger, Thornhill agrees to help the Professor in order to protect her. They fly to Rapid City, South Dakota, where Thornhill  meets Eve and Vandamm in a crowded cafeteria at the base of Mount Rushmore. He offers to let Vandamm leave the country in exchange for Eve, but is turned down. When he tries to keep her from leaving, Eve shoots Thornhill and flees. He is taken away in an ambulance. At a secluded spot, however, he emerges unharmed, having been shot with blanks. To his dismay, he learns that, having proven her loyalty and made herself a fugitive, Eve will accompany Vandamm out of the country that night. To keep him from interfering further, Thornhill is locked in a hospital room. Thornhill manages to escape and goes to Vandamm's mountainside home, slipping inside undetected. He learns that the Tarascan statue contains secrets on microfilm. While Eve is out of the room, Leonard fires the gun she used at Vandamm, demonstrating how the shooting was faked. Vandamm decides to throw Eve out of the airplane when they are flying over water. Thornhill manages to warn her by writing a note inside one of his ROT matchbooks and dropping it where she can find it. On the way to the airplane, Eve grabs the statue and joins Thornhill. Leonard and Valerian chase them across the top of the Mount Rushmore monument. Valerian lunges at the pair, but falls to his death. Eve slips and clings desperately to the steep mountainside. Thornhill grabs her hand, while precariously holding on with his other hand. Leonard appears and treads on his hand. They are saved when the Professor has a police marksman shoot Leonard, whose lifeless body falls off the mountain, and Vandamm is arrested. The scene transitions from Thornhill pulling Eve up to safety on Mount Rushmore to him pulling her, now his wife, onto an upper bunk on a train. The final shot shows their train speeding into a tunnel.The Stooges have lost their jobs. Adding insult to injury, they received a letter from Dad with the news that he requires surgery. To help pay for the operation, the father suggests the boys search for uranium on his mining property. The boys locate the uranium, but run afoul of a load of dynamite. Then, when they are trying to fix the water pump, it starts gushing oil. Joe tries to cork it by sitting on it, but he is sent flying into the air. When he wishes it would stop, it does, much to Moe and Larry's dismay. Joe manages to get the oil started again, and boys are in the dough.Ralph Anderson returns to his remote California hometown for the first time in many years. Now a lawyer, he has been estranged from his father, Lloyd, and brother, Tippy, ever since being sent to reform school as a youth for stealing a car, taking the blame for his brother's crime. Lloyd is now sheriff and Tippy his deputy. Forced to represent a wanted criminal, Ralph asks the law to look the other way while a local airfield is used to enable the mobster, Massonetti, to flee the country. A disgusted Lloyd agrees to help, but Tippy decides to arrest Massonetti and cash in on a big reward. Tippy's beautiful wife Linda was once the love of Ralph's life and regrets his long absence. She is tired of Tippy's shiftless, drunken ways and Lloyd's domineering rule of the family. Massonetti arrives in town, backed by Davis, his top thug. Tippy and two deputies, Karger and Eddie, make an amateurish attempt to capture Massonetti, only to get Lloyd shot and killed while trying to stop them. Ralph manages to get Massonetti behind bars at the town jail. The mob cuts off phone communication and highway access to the town. Ralph suggests driving Massonetti to the authorities in Barstow in the mobster's own fast car. Noticing the tension between the brothers, Massonetti taunts them both and offers $25,000 to tempt Tippy into betraying Ralph and setting him free. On the road, deputy Eddie is ambushed and the brothers learn that Linda has been abducted. A deal is made to get her back, but Karger is killed and the car is disabled. Ralph manages to get the four of them to a gas station, where the owner is found shot. In a fight for the gun, Ralph is winged and Tippy seriously wounded. Borrowing a miner's jeep, Ralph drives Massonetti to a main highway, where two policemen take them into custody. They turn out to be impostors who drive Massonetti to an air strip where Davis is waiting with a plane. After they board, Ralph drives the car into the plane, overturning it. He drags Massonetti from the wreckage and holds him until real cops arrive. By the time he returns to the gas station, Linda is watching Tippy's lifeless body carried away.Cadet Staff Sergeant Jocko DeParis is a senior at the fictional Southern Military College. Using the authority of his own rank, his father's connections with the school, and the college's tradition of allowing upperclassmen to bully new cadets, DeParis effectively does what he pleases. Everyone at the school is either afraid of him or believes he is a normal or even exemplary cadet. One night, he frames George Avery, the son of a staff member, making it appear that he got drunk and fell unconscious on the quadrangle all by himself. Cadet Avery is expelled, and DeParis sees to it that every cadet who took part in the incident lies during the investigation to conceal his own involvement. Two freshmen, along with the roommates of DeParis and the regimental commander, eventually decide to end DeParis' manipulation of them and the school. By the time DeParis is cornered in a restaurant in the nearby town, a great many cadets have banded together against him. The regimental commander orders him to sign a statement confessing to engineering Avery's expulsion and going to great lengths to conceal the truth from investigators. Initially reacting with smug confidence and indignant anger at being accused, DeParis finally folds and signs the statement, asking that he be allowed to leave quietly. The cadets then take him away from the restaurant and start dragging an increasingly frantic DeParis towards a railroad track. Instead of throwing him in front of the approaching train, they put him on board once it stops. As the train begins to move again, DeParis runs to the rearmost car and rails at the watching cadets, shouting furiously, "I'll be back! I'll get you guys! You can't do this to Jocko DeParis!"Three strangers arrive at the port of Macao on the same ship: Nick Cochran , a cynical-but-honest ex-serviceman, Julie Benson , an equally cynical, sultry night club singer, and Lawrence Trumble , a traveling salesman who deals in both silk stockings and contraband. Corrupt police lieutenant Sebastian  notifies casino owner and underworld boss Vincent Halloran  about the new arrivals. Halloran has tipped off about an undercover New York City policeman out to lure him into international waters so he can be arrested. With only three strangers to choose from, Halloran assumes Nick is the cop. He tries to bribe a puzzled Nick to leave Macao, but Nick is interested in getting to know Julie better and turns him down. Halloran hires Julie as a singer, in part to find out what she knows about Nick. Later, Trumble offers Nick a commission to help him sell a stolen diamond necklace. However, when Nick shows Halloran a diamond from the necklace, Halloran recognizes it; he had sent the jewelry to Hong Kong only a week earlier to be sold. Now sure of Nick's identity, he has the American taken prisoner for later questioning. Nick is guarded by two thugs and Halloran's jealous girlfriend, Margie . Worried that Halloran is planning to dump her for Julie, Margie lets Nick escape, with the two guards close behind. When Trumble happens on the late-night chase, he tries to help Nick and is killed, mistaken by the thugs for Nick. Before he dies, he tells Nick about the police boat waiting offshore. When Nick tries to get Julie to go away with him, he learns that Halloran has invited her on a trip to Hong Kong . With this information, Nick is able to dispose of Halloran's murderous henchman, Itzumi , and take the helm of Halloran's boat. He steers for the waiting police and hands Halloran over to them.During a weekend side-trip to Reno, Nevada, college friends Brick , Al , Ronnie  and Roy , visit the famous casino Harold's Club. After an hour spent gambling and socializing, the group prepares to leave. Ronnie, however, has lost money playing roulette, and must cash in a check at the cashier's window. He is accompanied there by Roy but, unbeknownst to either of them, the cashier is being threatened by a man with a gun. Using a concealed security alarm, the cashier alerts casino officials who then converge on the window believing that Roy and Ronnie are also involved in the gunman's attempted robbery. All three are apprehended. Outside the casino moments later, Al persuades the police to release Roy and Ronnie, but the inquisitive Ronnie has already become obsessed with the concept of a spectacular casino robbery, and he abruptly begins forming his own plans to rob Harold's Club after he overhears a bystander lament, “There's no way it  can be done.” Once back at college, the incident is seemingly forgotten, though Ronnie immediately begins developing his plans in earnest whilst the others are preoccupied by the beginning of the new term. Al is also preoccupied by his desire to reestablish his relationship with his girlfriend, Kaye , who has recently become a singer at a local nightclub. Determined to see her perform, Al takes Brick, Roy and Ronnie to see one of Kaye's first shows. After the performance, Brick, a Korean War veteran, is provoked into fighting a fellow student over a former girlfriend and, afterward, he suffers from the effects of a dissociative psychotic episode due to an ongoing battle with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder . Later in the night, Al encourages a distraught Brick to return to a veteran’s hospital for treatment, but he refuses. Together, the two agree to move on.  Some time later, Ronnie finalizes an actual plan to rob Harold’s Club. Claiming that the robbery would be an adventurous “first” [experience] in their otherwise ordinary lives, Ronnie reveals the plan to Brick and Roy. Ronnie then maintains that if the robbery were a success, all the stolen money would be returned, thereby ensuring that no one involved would be guilty of a prosecutable crime. Though initially skeptical, Brick and Roy gradually abandon their misgivings. The wealthy Ronnie then uses his personal inheritance funds to purchase an untraceable trailer and car and fabricate a wooden cart that is identical to the cash carts used at Harold's — the most important component of the heist. Though his preparations are complete, Ronnie determines that the robbery can only go ahead if Al is present for it, since he maintains that at least four people will be needed for the dangerously complex operation. But Brick, Roy and Ronnie agree that Al will not go along with the robbery if he is made aware of it beforehand. Coincidentally, the day before the robbery, Al proposes to Kaye, and they decide to go to Reno with the others to celebrate their engagement. On the way to Reno, Al recognizes the cart's design while riding in the trailer and inadvertently triggers play of a sinister audio recording somehow connected to a button on the cart's handle and played through a small reel-to-reel recorder hidden inside the cart itself. The message reveals Ronnie's robbery plans to Kaye and Al. Shocked, they refuse to participate. Brick then intervenes. Pulling a hidden revolver from his baggage, Brick seizes control of the robbery. Fearing a life of destitution and confinement, the increasingly volatile and disturbed Brick explains that the robbery will go ahead as intended, despite Al and Kaye’s objections, but with one significant exception: the money will not be returned to the casino. Additionally, Brick promises to kill Al if anyone attempts to sabotage the plan. Once they arrive at the casino, the robbery is carried out efficiently as Reno’s casino district is filled with costumed partiers celebrating a distracting cowboy-themed fête, and in the chaotic festivities the disguised Brick, Ronnie and Al blend into the crowd, going completely unnoticed by casino security while convincing a cart operator  to retrieve cash from the casino's money room through a clever ploy — using the prerecorded message on the tape recorder inside the counterfeit cart to frighten the man into playing along. After the final moments of the robbery, Brick leaves the others behind and escapes with the money but is pursued, by Al, into a casino parking structure. Kaye, having alerted police, follows them, and a tense standoff takes place. Ultimately, Al convinces Brick to give up peacefully and the gathered police officers escort Brick from the scene while promising to treat him fairly. No one else is arrested and, in the final shot, Al and Kaye embrace on a crowded street.The Stooges are investigators for the Onion Oil company, whose service stations are being robbed by a gang of crooks. On the job, the Stooges provide nothing less than first-class service. However, most of the services are not typical of your standard gas station , and they still somehow manage to be robbed when their backs are turned. Tracing a trail of motor oil to the crooks' hideout, the Stooges demonstrate boxing skills far more effective than their earlier detective skills.Norman , a lowly stock clerk at Burridge's department store, is in love with another employee, Sally Wilson , though he has been unable to muster the courage to let her know how he feels. After he antagonizes the new head of the store, Augustus Freeman , he is promptly fired. On his way out, Norman helps Miss Bacon  carry her bulging suitcases, unaware that she is an audacious shoplifter. Freeman sees Norman assisting a "customer" and rehires him. Meanwhile, Peggy Drew , the store's personnel manager, flirts with Mr. Freeman, while plotting with her boyfriend Gerald  to rob the place. Norman is fired and rehired again and again, as his escapades somehow manage to benefit the store. He also finally becomes acquainted with Sally, chasing her down through the city streets to return her purse. His antics make her laugh. After his latest firing, Norman is alarmed to find the handsome, suave Gerald trying to get to know Sally better. When he goes to the man's apartment to warn him to stay away from her, Norman inadvertently uncovers the robbery plot, scheduled to coincide with a big sale the next day. But, he is unable to get Sally or anyone else to take him seriously. Sally eventually decides to bring Norman's story to the attention of the management, but tells the wrong person, Miss Drew, and is tied up for her efforts. Norman finds her and together, they foil the thieves. Freeman takes Norman back into his employ...but not for long.Psychiatrist Dr. Hill is called to the emergency ward of a hospital, where a frantically screaming man is held in custody. Dr. Hill agrees to listen to his story. The man identifies himself as Dr. Miles Bennell, and recounts the events leading to his arrest in the flashback that follows. In the fictional town of Santa Mira, California, Miles Bennell, a local doctor, has a number of patients accusing their loved ones of being impostors. Another patient is a former girlfriend of his, the recently divorced Becky Driscoll, who tells him that her cousin Wilma, has the same fear about Uncle Ira. Dr. Dan Kauffman, a psychiatrist in the town, assures Bennell that the cases are nothing but "epidemic mass hysteria". That same evening Bennell's friend Jack Belicec finds a body with what appear to be his features, though it's not yet fully developed. The next body found is a copy of Becky in the cellar of her house. When Bennell calls Kauffman to the scene, the bodies have mysteriously disappeared and Kauffman suspects Bennell of falling for the same hysteria. The following night Bennell, Becky, Jack and Jack's wife Teddy again find duplicates of themselves, emerging from giant pods. They conclude that the townspeople are being replaced in their sleep by perfect physical copies. Miles tries to call long distance for help from outside resources, but the phone operator claims that no long-distance calls are possible. Jack and Teddy drive away to get help. Bennell and Becky discover that most inhabitants have already been replaced, and are now devoid of any humanity. They flee to Bennell's office to hide for the night. The next morning they see that truckloads of pods are being sent to neighboring towns, to replace even more humans. Kauffman and Jack, both of whom are now "pod people", reveal that an extraterrestrial life form is responsible for the invasion. After the takeover, they explain, life loses its frustrating complexity because all emotions and sense of individuality have vanished. Bennell and Becky manage to escape and hide in a mine outside of town. While Bennell inspects a near-by farm where more pods are bred, Becky falls asleep and is instantly taken over. She informs the "pod people" where to find Bennell, who runs onto the next highway, frantically screaming to passing motorists, "They're here already! You're next! You're next!" Bennell finishes his story. Dr. Hill and the doctor on duty doubt his account until a highway accident victim is hospitalized, who had been found under a load of giant pods. The men realize that Bennell's story is fact and begin to alert the authorities.The film is set in 1930s West Virginia, along the Ohio River. Ben Harper ([[Peter Graves  is sentenced to hang for his part in a robbery in which two men were killed. Before he is caught he hides the stolen money, trusting only his son John , the main character of the story, with the money's location. John has a much younger sister, Pearl . Reverend Harry Powell , a serial killer and self-appointed preacher with the two words "LOVE" and "HATE" tattooed across the knuckles of his right and left hands, shares a prison cell with Harper. He tries to get Harper to tell him the hiding place before his execution, but the only clue he gets is a Bible verse Harper mutters in his sleep: "And a little child shall lead them."  Convinced that Harper told his children the secret, Powell woos and marries Harper's widow, Willa . Willa does not know her new husband's motive and believes her marriage will lead to her salvation. Powell asks the children about the money when they are alone, but they reveal nothing. John is suspicious of Powell and protective of his sister. One night Willa overhears her husband questioning the children and she realizes the truth. As she lies in bed that night in their attic bedroom, Powell leans over her and slits her throat. Powell dumps Willa's body in the river. He finally learns the money's location from Pearl by threatening John, but the children flee with the money down the river. They eventually find sanctuary with Rachel Cooper , a tough old woman who looks after stray children. Powell eventually tracks them down, but Rachel sees through his false virtue. After a climactic standoff, in which Rachel protects the children with a shotgun but sings hymns through the night with Powell, he is arrested by the police, tried, and, apparently, convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of Willa and for the crimes against the children. Towards the end of the film, Rachel declares that "children are man at his strongest. They abide." The film ends with her speaking directly to camera: "They abide and they endure."Having recently taken over the role of entertainments officer at an army camp the Padre Captain William Paris is disheartened so few of the troops turn out for an evening of classical music. He visits a local pub and finds the place packed with soldiers, including his own driver. He then resolves to try and secure something more entertaining for the troops and comes up with the idea of bringing in a Brain Trust to answer questions from the audience. With the help of Lady Dodds the Captain manages to gather together a group of local notables, who all swiftly prove to be mildly eccentric. The group includes the opinionated Professor Mutch, who is a popular radio personality with the BBC, and his friend the oil painter George Prout and his wife Angela. While arriving at their house, the Captain interrupts Mutch and Mrs Prout who are about to embrace. Upon meeting Mr Prout he soon finds him a cold man who verbally abuses his wife. The Trust is rounded out by the wandered Doctor McAdam and the chippy local Labour MP Joseph Byres. With the help of his secretary, Private Jessie Killigrew, the Captain manages to organise the event. The hall is relatively well filled. Trying to avoid anything controversial, the Captain forbids any discussion of politics and begins with some innocuous questions about cows chasing after trains and if the Moon is inhabited? Things soon become heated when the MP takes offence at comments directed at him and threatens to start a fight. Having only just averted this, a question about marriage reveals the fragility of the Prout's marriage. Fearing any controversy, the Captain quickly announces that it is time for the interval. As word spreads around the camp of the goings-on, the second half begins with the room completely packed. The Captain tries to steer the debate back to harmless questions about bluebottles, but the audience demands an answer to the earlier question about marriage. As the Prouts begin arguing once again, Mrs Prout admits that the Professor is her lover. At this the whole event threatens to descend into anarchy despite the attempts of the Captain to maintain order. Desperate to restore a sense of propriety he draws the proceedings to a close, and announces that next week they will return to classical music by inviting a string quartet. A soldier stands up and thanks the Captain for providing such entertainment and asking if the Brain Trust can be made a regular feature. Worried about Mr Prout who has disappeared and has been drinking the heavily others follow him back to his house where they mistakenly believe that he is going to throw himself over the cliffs. Instead he is planning on a bit of quiet painting. Meanwhile the Professor has revealed himself to be an inherently selfish man, while Mr Prout is suddenly far more reasonable. He and Mrs Prout soon resolve their differences, and he tries to be a little more considerate to her. The film ends with the string quartet playing once more and the Captain sitting almost entirely alone in the theatre.The film begins with New Mexico State Police Sergeant Ben Peterson  and his patrol partner Ed Blackburn  discovering a little girl wandering the desert near Alamogordo, mute and in a state of shock. They retrace her steps to a trailer owned by an FBI agent named Ellinson, who was on vacation in the area with his wife and two children. The side of the trailer has been ripped open from the outside, and the rest of the family is missing and presumed dead. The girl briefly responds when strange sounds echo out of the desert wind, but the troopers and medic miss this. More mysterious deaths and disappearances occur in the area. A general store owner named Gramps Johnson is found dead in his store, which had been literally torn apart. All the money is left in the register, but a barrel of sugar had been smashed open, and Gramps' empty rifle has been fired empty and bent in half. Peterson leaves to check on the little girl and make a report leaving Blackburn to guard Gramps' store. Not long afterward, Blackburn hears a strange noise outside and goes out to investigate. Soon there is the sound of several gunshots, the strange sound gets louder, and Blackburn is heard screaming in agony, whereupon he disappears as well. Later, FBI agent Robert Graham  has arrived to assist. A single strange track bigger than a mountain lion’s has been found in the desert near the trailer, and a plaster cast of it was made and sent to Washington, D.C. The police think there is a maniac killer on the loose, but Peterson's boss points out that Gramps got off several shots with his 30-30 and was “a dead shot and could hit anything he could see”. So, the police commander says, “unless the attacker is armored like a battleship, there’s no maniac killer in this case.” Even more puzzling is the coroner's verdict about the possible causes of death found on Gramps Johnson's body: “Gramps could have died any one of five ways. His neck and back were broken, his skull was fractured, his chest was crushed... and here’s one for Sherlock Holmes. There was enough formic acid in his body to kill twenty men.” When the FBI is unable to identify the footprint, it attracts the attention of Harold  and Pat Medford , a father/daughter team of entomologists from the Department of Agriculture. The elder Dr. Medford arrives on the scene with a theory, but will not go into it until he tries an experiment on the Ellinson girl and sees the site where they found the track. In the hospital, he has her smell the contents of a vial containing formic acid, whereupon she emerges from her state of catatonic withdrawal and screams, "Them! Them!" Medford's theory is validated when, back at the torn-up trailer, he sees the track, measuring an astonishing eighteen centimeters, making the “creature” almost eight feet in length. Both Graham and Peterson are upset that the doctor has not let them in on what he thinks is happening, but he explains that he is trying to avoid a nationwide panic. As they talk, his daughter encounters a giant foraging ant. The lawmen empty their revolvers at the monster, to little effect. On Medford's advice, Peterson, using a Thompson submachine gun, and Graham finally kill it by shooting off the creature's antennae, blinding it, then emptying the Thomson into it. Medford finally tells them what it is: an ant. He theorizes it was mutated by the radiation from the first atom bomb tests, close by at Alamogordo. A U.S. Air Force unit is brought in, led by General O'Brien , which locates the ants' nest and exterminates the inhabitants with poison gas. However, the younger Dr. Medford finds evidence that two young queens have hatched and flown away to establish new colonies. Trying to avoid a general panic, the government covertly investigates any reports of unusual activities or sightings of "flying saucers". One report leads them to a railroad car which has been caved in and forty tons of sugar taken. The guard is irate at being accused of being in on it. "Who's going to steal forty tons of sugar? Is there a black market for it?" Another report takes them to a local hospital and a pilot named Crotty, who was forced down by U.F.O.s that he says resembled giant ants. He’s confined to the psycho ward, but the doctor – who is about to release him, saying it’s all a publicity stunt – is warned to keep him locked up and without any visitors so he gets no publicity. They’ll call later and tell the doctor when Crotty can be released. One of the queens is finally revealed to have invaded the hold of an ocean-going freighter which had been docked for off-loading and hatches left open. It has been overrun by ants who then slaughter the crew. The vessel is sunk by a U.S. Navy cruiser. Then, an alcoholic in a hospital "drunk tank" reveals that he saw giant ants flying around outside his window, and the dismembered corpse of a man last seen with his two young sons  leads the investigation to the storm drain system that empties into the Los Angeles River. Given the significant threat to the City, the U.S. Army goes public with the existence of the giant ants, declares martial law for the city, and prepares for a major assault on the new nest. During the assault, Peterson finds the two missing boys alive but trapped near the ants' nest. He calls for backup but, seeing that the boys are in imminent danger, goes in alone before help can arrive. He gets the boys to safety in the pipe through which he came. Before Peterson himself can escape, he is grabbed from behind in the mandibles of another ant and mortally wounded. Graham arrives at the scene with reinforcements, and they fight off the swarming ants. Graham is nearly killed himself when a cave-in temporarily cuts him off from the rest of the men; several ants charge him, but he is able to hold them off long enough for the other troops to tunnel through the debris and come to his rescue. The nest's queen and egg chamber are then destroyed with flamethrowers. The senior Dr. Medford issues a grim warning that "the atomic genie has been let out of the bottle," and further horrors may await mankind. He solemnly intones, "When man entered the atomic age, he opened the door to a new world. What we may eventually find in that new world, nobody can predict."In post-war America, the President of the United States is scheduled to journey through the small town of Suddenly, California. Claiming to be checking up on security prior to his arrival, a group of FBI agents arrive at the home of the Bensons, on top of a hill that looks down upon the station where the Presidential train is due to stop. However, they soon turn out to be assassins led by the ruthless John Baron , who take over the house and hold the family hostage. Sheriff Tod Shaw  arrives with Dan Carney , a Secret Service agent in charge of the President's security detail. When he does, Baron and his gangsters shoot Carney and a bullet fractures Shaw's arm. Baron sends one of his two henchmen to double-check on the President's schedule but he is killed in a shootout with the police. Jud , a television repairman, shows up at the house and also becomes a hostage. Pidge  goes to his grandfather's dresser to fetch some medication and notices a fully loaded revolver which he replaces with his toy cap gun. Baron is confronted by the sheriff on the risks and meaning of killing the President and Baron's remaining henchman begins showing some reluctance. For Baron, however, these are the very least of his concerns and it soon becomes clear that he is a psychopath whose pleasure comes from killing{{spaced ndash}}who and why he kills being the least of his problems. A sniper's rifle has been mounted on a metal table by a window. Jud discreetly hooks the table up to the 5000 volt plate output of the family television. Pop Benson  then spills a cup of water on the floor beneath the table. Although the hope is that Baron will be shocked to death, his remaining henchman touches the table first and is electrocuted, firing the rifle repeatedly and attracting the attention of police at the train station as he struggles to free himself. Baron shoots Jud, disconnects the electrical hookup and aims the rifle as the president's train arrives at the station, but to his surprise, doesn't stop . Ellen Benson  shoots Baron in the chest and Shaw shoots him again. Baron's last words are, "Don't... please."Phyllis Tredman is shocked when husband Lloyd, a decorated Korean War pilot, sends word to her after his discharge from military service requesting a divorce. She tracks him down in Spain, where it turns out Lloyd is drinking and gambling heavily. He is tormented by having ordered so many Air Force pilots to their death on dangerous missions. He also is strangely attracted to Paquita, the wife of his friend and fellow pilot Jimmy Heldon. A mysterious man named Bert Smith, aware that Lloyd is down on his luck, offers him $25,000 to do something illegal and dangerous -- transport currency from Cairo to Madrid, dropping the box of cash in mid-air. Lloyd has wagered his last $1,000 on a horse race. He says if the horse wins, he won't need Smith's offer, but the race ends tragically with the jockey killed. Lloyd suspects foul play. Jimmy takes the job after Lloyd refuses. He ends up missing and Paquita blames Lloyd, calling him a coward. It turns out to be a test run from which Jimmy returns late but safely. He intends to go through with the crime, risking everything, but Lloyd knocks him out and pilots the plane himself. Steadying himself after first being paralyzed with fear, Lloyd's flight goes badly when a propellor is damaged. Authorities end up put on alert and Interpol agents begin tracking the plane. Lloyd tries to hide the money, only to discover narcotics are being smuggled by Bert as well. He drops the box from the sky as planned, but notifies Interpol and gets Bert arrested at the scene of the crime. The thankful authorities elect not to punish Lloyd, who returns to Phyllis' open arms.A local thief, Cosimo, is arrested for the attempted theft of a car. After he is sentenced and put in prison, he begins immediately on his escape by telling his partners that he has a plan for a heist but that he needs their help to be freed. In order to assure his release, they find an acquaintance named Peppe with a clean criminal record to take blame for the theft in the hopes that the police will release Cosimo. They instead have both of them jailed. While Peppe is in jail, Cosimo tells him the plans for the heist of a safe in a pawnshop. After revealing the plans, Peppe tells him that he got off merely with probation, leaving him free to pursue the heist without Cosimo, much to the chagrin of Cosimo. The heist entails the following: as the pawnshop is adjacent to a vacant apartment, they must first break into a small courtyard, climb onto the roof of another small apartment, and break in through a window of the vacant home. To accomplish this, they enlist the help of another local thief that is an expert on safes who tells them of a plan  to silence the alarm of the safe that they may break into it safely. While everything is planned, they discover that the vacant apartment has just become occupied by two spinsters and their young, attractive maid. Peppe learns from the young maid, with whom he flirts, that the two women never leave their apartment except on Thursday night. After arranging a date with the girl on this particular day, the group is distressed to learn that she quits her job and the women may in fact be there on the night. Meanwhile, a number of misfortunes are incurred by the group: Cosimo, who had since been released from jail, dies in a botched robbery; Mario, another of the group, bails on the plan in favor of a legitimate life for the sake of a beautiful girl, while another of the group is partially crippled after being attacked by the man whose camera he stole earlier for the purpose of daytime reconnaissance of the pawnshop. Despite this, they proceed with the plan anyway after learning that the women will not be in the apartment. Notwithstanding a number of bumbling entries, they gain entry into the apartment. After first boring a hole through a water pipe, they are forced to staunch the flow of water while remaining quiet after a night porter enters the apartment to make a call. After these obstacles, they bore another hole, this time knocking out a portion of the wall, revealing another room in the same apartment. After they realize their plan was miscalculated, they leave the apartment dejected - albeit as free men. Peppe then decides to find legitimate work, much to the surprise of an elderly member of the group. The film ends with a newspaper article recounting a robbery by unknown persons of an apartment for food{{plot}} A German expedition is in the African jungles doing an unidentified mission there. During this mission, Thorn  is attacked and captured by the local natives called the Botos. Before they can kill him at their village, the Botos then notice the arrival of a long-haired, topless wild woman  wearing only three necklaces and a loincloth made of beads, shells, and some feathers. The wild woman communicates with the Botos to spare him and let him go. When Thoren leaves, the wild woman heads into her treehouse. Later that night, Thoren tells the others of her experience with the wild woman and is told by one of them to take him to where he saw her. The Botos are shown doing entertainment as the wild woman plays with her pet lion cub Simba. The next day, the wild woman grabs onto a vine and swings over a lake before she lets go to drop into the lake and go swimming. When she is spotted by Thoren, she escapes into the jungle only to be later caught in a big game net by Kersten and Keller which is spotted by one of the tribesman who alerts the other Botos. Later that night, Thoren arrives and has part of the net removed from the woman's head and feeds her a banana. When the Botos attack in retaliation, Thoren hooks up a tape to a loadspeaker which frightens off the Botos as Dr. Jacqueline Goddard  undoes the net and lets her rest. After the Botos escape, the wild woman gets up and is attacked by an expedition member only for him to be beaten up by Thoren who warns him to keep his hands off her. Thoren carries her body back to the tent to let her rest. Thoren and Jacqueline then notice that one of necklaces around her neck has a good luck charm with an L engraved into it. Thoren then decides to bring it to Professor Danner to figure it out. The next day, Jacqueline gives the wild woman a bath which she enjoys, cuts her unruly hair to shoulder length, and puts her in some new clothes. Thoren comes in and tells Jacqueline that the whole world is asking for information about the white girl they found. Jacqueline says that her name is Kiyahi, but couldn't understand anything else she said. Thoren and Jacqueline then teach her some of their language and states that she must've originally come from a good family before being taken in by the Botos. Meanwhile in Germany, shipping tychoon Theo Amelongen  and his nephew Viktor  look at the article about the wild woman that was found and Theo suspects that it might be her long-lost granddaughter Liane who went missing 18 years ago when the ship she and her parents were on went down with a speculation that her Liane at 2 years old had somehow survived. Theo decides to have his agents look into this. Back in Africa, Thoren takes Liane with him and Jacqueline. When Liane's tribesman friend Tanga  and Simba show up, he ends up sneaking on the ship. While Liane, Thoren, and Jacqueline are playing cards, Tanga catches up with them and they end up taking him and the lion cub with them. When the ship arrives in Germany, the press swarm over Liana until Thoren sends then off. When the group ends up at Theo's house, he is reintroduced to Liane as well as being introduced to Tanga and Simba. Viktor is told by his lawyer that Liane will be inheriting the fortune. This causes Viktor to take matters into his old hands without Theo finding out. He ends up locking her into a room and ends up getting attacked by Tanga. At his company later, Viktor hires a man named Jensen who was one of the survivors of the ship Imperia sinking and asks to testify that he had no survivors without mentioning that Viktor hired him for this. While talking with Thoren as a bikini-clad Liane plays with Simba, Theo tells Thoren that he will watch over Liane until he gets back. They then see Liane climb up a tree and dive into the lake that she swims in until breakfast is served. Theo then commented that she had inherited her mother's swimming abilities. Theo and Thoren then look at the last letter Liane's mother wrote which says that she had given her milk to her fox terrier Terry and enjoys climbing. Later on, Blackie the dog find a piece of paper of the letter that was crumpled up. When Thoren asks who would want to try to dispose of the letter, Theo asks his maid where Viktor is. Theo then arranges to meet with Viktor tonight. When the counselor comes that evening with Viktor, they find Theo dead in his study. Moments later, the police are called in where the counselor and the maid are questioned about Theo's death. They found the evidence of the pencil and string which the inspector thinks the culprit would end up getting in to the study. It is then discovered that Viktor was responsible for his uncle's death as he makes his escape. Viktor then gets into his car as Thoren and the police pursue him. The car chase goes down the street until Viktor ends up driving his car off the bridge to his death. Back in Africa, Professor Danner gets the news that Liane has inherited the Amelongen fortune and gets a news article that Liane is heading back to Africa to visit the Danner expedition. Professor Danner considers this as a homecoming with Thoren and Tanga arriving with her. The Botos also rejoice with the news that Liane and Tanga are coming back. Liane, Tanga, and Thoren arrive with Professor Danner. While the Botos celebrate, Liane runs off into the jungle, gets naked, and goes swimming in a lake. She is then joined in her swimming by Thoren.After Sach is mistaken by French professor as the missing Prof. Maurice Gaston LeBeau, they convince him to impersonate the professor in the hopes of driving the real professor out of hiding. Sach and Slip head off to Paris, along with Louie, and proceed with the plan, with everyone there thinking that the professor has amnesia. The real professor finds out about his impostor and returns to Paris, just in time to encounter spies who are trying to steal the professor's rocket fuel formula that he was working on when he disappeared. Sach, however, creates his own rocket formula that saves the day, and he is rewarded for his efforts in the end.Unaccountable, deadly malfunctions begin occurring at a top-secret government facility under the New Mexico desert where a space station is being constructed. OSI agents are called in to investigate. Laboratory supervisor Dr. Van Ness calls in Dr. David Sheppard, a security agent from the Office of Scientific Investigation in Washington, DC, to find the cause of the mysterious deaths. Working with Joanna Merritt, an OSI agent already at the facility, Sheppard determines that the deaths among the lab's 150 top scientists are due to deliberate sabotage of NOVAC , a central computer which controls all equipment in the underground facility. But it is harder to determine how the sabotage is being done. The unseen enemy strikes again and again, snuffing out six scientists in quick succession, as well as Major Howard, the complex's Chief of Security. Eventually, Sheppard determines that a powerful radio transmitter and receiver were secretly built into NOVAC during its construction. An enemy plane whose fiberglass body does not register on radar has been flying overhead, beaming precisely focused, ultra-high frequency radio signals, thereby controlling NOVAC's every function. The computer, in turn, controls Gog and Magog— 2 mobile robots with powerful gripping tools and other implements. Magog is finally directed to go to the complex's nuclear reactor room and pull the safety rod out of the atomic pile, starting a chain reaction that will soon build to a nuclear explosion, which will destroy the entire facility. Sheppard arrives in time to push the safety rod back into the pile, stopping the chain reaction. He then attacks the robot with a flame thrower and disables it, but Gog soon follows its twin to the reactor room to finish the job. Sheppard's flame thrower runs out of fuel as the robot advances on him. Dr. Van Ness arrives with another flame thrower, but the control valve sticks, and Gog now turns on him. Sheppard desperately begins using the nozzle of his flame thrower like a baseball bat, trying to smash the robot's electronic tubes. The now-crippled robot begins spinning back and forth, its arms thrashing about wildly. At that point, Gog suddenly comes to a halt, its metal arms falling limply to its sides. An American F-86 Sabre jet fighter has finally tracked down the enemy plane and destroyed it, ending NOVAC's reign of destruction. A few days later, Dr. Van Ness explains the situation to the Secretary of Defense, and informs him that a working model of the space station is about to be launched into orbit. The new station will be equipped with telescopes and television cameras which will spot any further attempts to sabotage the complex in this fashion. The Secretary observes with satisfaction, "We'll never be taken by surprise again!" The film concludes with the successful launch of the rocket containing the working model from the complex.Sid  has just been hired as superintendent of the Sleeptite Pajama Factory in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He soon falls for Babe , a worker in the factory and member of the employee union's leadership. At the company picnic they become a couple, but Babe worries that their roles in management and labor will drive them apart. She is correct. The union is pushing for a raise of seven-and-one-half cents per hour to bring them in line with the industry standard, but the factory's manager is giving them a runaround. In retaliation, the workers pull a slow-down and deliberately foul up the pajamas, but when Babe actually sabotages some machinery, Sid fires her. Meanwhile, Sid has been wondering what secrets the manager is hiding in his locked account book. To that end, he takes Gladys , the boss' assistant, on a date to the local hot spot, "Hernando's Hideaway," despite her insanely jealous boyfriend 'Hine-sie' . He gets Gladys drunk, and in this state, she lends him the key to the locked book. Returning to the factory, Sid discovers that the manager reported the raise as having been instituted months ago. He has been pocketing the difference himself. Sid threatens to send the book to the board of directors if the raise isn't paid immediately. At the union meeting that evening, the manager agrees to the raise. When Babe realizes that it was Sid who engineered the raise and that he has only been attempting to avoid labor strife, she returns to him.In Hollywood, screenwriter James Lee Bartlow , movie star Georgia Lorrison , and director Fred Amiel ([[Barry Sullivan  each refuse to speak by phone to Jonathan Shields  in Paris. Movie producer Harry Pebbel  gathers them in his office and begs them to help Shields out. The backstory of their involvement with Shields unfolds in a series of flashbacks. Shields is the son of a notorious old filmmaker who had been dumped by the industry. He was so unpopular that his son had to hire "extras" to attend his funeral. Shields is determined to make it in Hollywood by any means necessary. Shields partners with aspiring director Amiel, whom he meets at his father's funeral. Shields intentionally loses money he does not have in a poker game to film executive Pebbel, so he can talk Pebbel into letting him work off the debt. Shields and Amiel learn their respective trades making low-budget films for Pebbel. Amiel decides he is ready to direct a project he has been nursing along. Shields pitches it to the studio. He gets a large budget to produce the film, but betrays Amiel by allowing someone with an established reputation to be chosen as director. Shields next encounters alcoholic small-time actress Lorrison, the daughter of a famous actor Shields admired. He builds up her confidence and gives her the leading role in one of his movies over everyone else's objections. When she falls in love with him, he lets her think that he feels the same way so that she does not self-destruct and he gets the performance he needs. After a smash premiere makes her a star overnight, she finds him with a beautiful bit player named Lila . He drives Lorrison away, telling her that he will never allow anyone to have that much control over him. Meanwhile, the film's success allows Shields to start his own studio, and Pebbel comes to work for him there. Finally, Bartlow is a contented professor at a small college who has written a bestselling book. Shields wants to turn it into a film and have him write the script. Bartlow is not interested, but his shallow Southern belle wife, Rosemary  is, so he agrees to do it for her sake. They go to Hollywood, where Shields is annoyed to find that her constant distractions are keeping her husband from his work. He gets his suave actor friend Victor "Gaucho" Ribera  to keep her occupied. Freed from interruption, Bartlow has no trouble finishing the script. Rosemary, however, runs off with Gaucho and they are killed in a plane crash. Shields employs Bartlow to help him produce the film. On the fourth day of filming, Shields disagrees with the director, and decides to direct the film himself. It is the first time Shields has directed a film, and he botches it, which leads to his bankruptcy. Then Shields slips and reveals that he knew Gaucho was going away with Rosemary, so Bartlow walks out on him. After the flashbacks are complete, all three reject Shields' offer to work together again. Pebbel sarcastically agrees that Shields "ruined" their lives, pointing out that are all three now at the top of their professions thanks to their work with Shields. As they leave, Pebbel is still talking to Shields. Out of his sight, the three eavesdrop using an extension phone while Shields describes his new idea, and become more and more interested.In 1928, Douglas Bader joins the Royal Air Force  as a cadet. Despite a friendly reprimand from Air Vice-Marshal Halahan for his disregard for service discipline and flight rules, he successfully completes his training and is posted to No. 23 Squadron at RAF Kenley. In 1930, he is chosen to be among the pilots for an aerial exhibition. Later, although his flight commander has explicitly banned low level aerobatics , he is goaded into it by a disparaging remark by a civilian pilot. He crashes. Mr Joyce, surgeon at the Royal Berkshire Hospital, has to amputate both legs to save Bader's life. During his convalescence, he receives encouragement from Nurse Brace. Upon his discharge from the hospital, he sets out to master prosthetic legs. At a stop for some tea, he meets waitress Thelma Edwards. Once he can walk on his own, he starts courting her. Despite his undiminished skills, he is refused flying duties simply because there are no regulations covering his situation. Offered a desk job instead, he leaves the RAF and works unhappily in an office. He and Thelma marry. As the Second World War starts, Bader talks himself back into the RAF. He is soon given command of a squadron comprising mostly dispirited Canadians who had fought in France. Improving morale and brazenly circumventing normal channels to obtain badly needed equipment, he makes the squadron operational again. They fight effectively in the Battle of Britain. Bader is then put in charge of a new, larger formation of five squadrons. Later, he is posted to RAF Tangmere and promoted to wing commander. In 1941, Bader has to bail out over France. He is caught, escapes, and is recaptured. He then makes such a nuisance of himself to his jailers, he is repeatedly moved from one POW camp to another, finally ending up in Colditz Castle. He is liberated after four years of captivity. The war ends  before Bader can have "one last fling" in the Far East. On 15 September 1945, the fifth anniversary of the greatest day of the Battle of Britain, Bader, now a group captain, is given the honour of leading eleven other battle survivors and a total of 300 aircraft in a flypast over London.After World War II, people try to sneak into the U.S. illegally with the help of a human smuggling ring run by Palinov . U.S. Immigration operative Peter Karczag  is sent to Havana, where he poses as a Hungarian in need of Palinov's services. During his dangerous undercover investigation, he falls in love with refugee Marianne Lorress . When Palinov discovers Karczag's true purpose, he first tries to have the agent killed. When that fails, Palinov decides to use his own services. He flies to the United States, with Lorress one of the other passengers. However, the airplane is being tracked by the U.S. government. It is crash landed in the Florida swamps in one last desperate attempt to elude capture.Prior to the Normandy landings three replacements are assigned to the 1st Platoon, "D" Company, 502nd Parachute Infantry Regiment. Amongst them is Private Mason  who doesn't get along with his fellow paratroopers but is kept in the unit by his platoon commander Lt. Pauling . Soon after the drop, Lt. Pauling is blinded and Mason learns how to be a paratrooper when he takes care of his Lieutenant.The Stooges work for Miracle Detective Agency, and are hired by a middle-aged millionaire named John Goodrich  to track down some racketeers who have threatened his life. Upon arrival at Old Man Goodrich's mansion, the boys are quickly seduced by a beautiful blonde  who puts a dose of poison in Shemp's drink. Moe and Larry revive Shemp and a spectacular chase ensues, culminating in a lights-out fight, with the Stooges coming out on top.Austin Spencer , a newspaper publisher, wants to prove a point about the insufficiency of circumstantial evidence, talks his possible son-in-law Tom Garrett  into a hoax in an attempt to expose the alleged ineptitude of the city's hard-line district attorney. The plan is to have Tom plant clues leading to his arrest for killing a female nightclub dancer, Patty Gray. Once Tom is found guilty, he is to reveal the setup and humiliate the DA. Tom agrees to the plan, not knowing that unforeseen events will put such a snag in the scheme. Spencer dies in a car accident before he can testify, and photographic evidence intended to clear Tom at his trial is burned to an unrecognisable state. Tom is found guilty and placed on death row in prison. A written testimony by the dead man is found in time to demonstrate the veracity of the two men's intentions, and Garrett is to be pardoned. However, a slip about the late woman's unreported real name to his by now former fiance leads him to confess. Gray or rather Emma Blucher, the murder victim, is actually Tom Garrett's estranged wife who had rescinded on her promise to divorce him in Mexico. As this would prevent Garrett from marrying Susan , the late publisher's daughter, he had murdered Emma/Patty. Garrett's potential pardon is rejected in time to prevent the double jeopardy rule coming into effect, and he is returned to the cells.The plot concerned the crew of the merchant ship Dunbar, which docks in the Pool of London. The crew are given shore leave, and soon become involved in smuggling and petty crime in post-war London. Unusually for the time, it tackled themes of racism, as one of the ship's crew was a Jamaican.Carefree vagabond Johnny Rutledge  is stuck in a small town when his medicine show employer and friend Professor Mordecai Ford  is put in jail. He befriends a young girl named May Chalotte . She, her brothers January ([[Gary Gray  and February ([[Billy Gray , and her twin brothers March  and April  are orphans. However, fearful of being separated, they haven't told anybody. Johnny finds himself being "adopted" as their uncle. Johnny starts working hard to support his new family, working on a farm during the week and singing and waiting tables on Sunday in a restaurant owned by Jericho Schlosser . Johnny makes the acquaintance of lovely heiress Prudence Millett  when she comes to inquire why the children are not in school. A romance begins to blossom, despite Johnny's determination to remain free of entanglements. When wealthy, unloved Jeffrey Gilland Sr.  orders Johnny to keep his disreputable children away from his son Jeffrey Jr. , Johnny scuffles with him and gets thrown in jail. He is bailed out by Prudence, but his troubles are not over. Plato Cassin  finds out about the children's parents and blackmails Johnny into agreeing to marry one of his older, spinster sisters, Genevieve  or Adelaide , in order to keep the kids.  Plato also convinces Prudence that Johnny was using the children to romance her. After thinking it over, Johnny decides to run away with Professor Ford. May overhears and invites people to her birthday party, intending it to be a going-away party for Johnny. Prudence shows up, having seen how far Johnny is willing to go for the children, and suggests he marry her instead. Adelaide proves to be a sport; they toss a coin for Johnny. Prudence wins, and Professor Ford leaves town alone.The film follows Jack Martin as he is offered a large amount of money to impersonate his look alike, Henri Duran.A mechanic and race car driver  is chosen by two bank robbers to help them with a heist. The heist requires a driver with considerable driving skills to complete the task. To bait the driver into the dangerous scheme, one of the robbers uses his girlfriend  to help persuade the honest young man to assist with the crime.In Timbuktu, experienced guide Joe January  reluctantly joins a Saharan treasure hunting expedition led by Paul Bonnard , a man obsessed with confirming his dead father's claim to have found a lost city. Dita , a woman of dubious reputation, becomes infatuated with Paul and his willingness to overlook her past. She invites herself along, despite Joe's protests. During the tough dry ordeal, Joe and Dita become attracted to each other, raising tensions. Just as they run out of water, they stumble upon the ancient city and a well. There, they find three human skeletons, a woman and two men. It becomes evident that Paul's father found his woman in the arms of his guide, killed them and then himself. There is also no treasure to be found. Paul's faith in his father is shattered and he becomes drunk. They find the treasure after Joe deciphers the clues left by Paul's father. They load it and prepare to leave in the morning. Paul makes an attempt to seduce Dita; she rejects him and he gets into a fight with Joe. Later, Paul sneaks away during the night taking all the animals, supplies, and treasure with him and leaving the other two to die. Joe and Dita chase after him on foot and eventually catch up. The two men fight and Paul is knocked out. While Joe and Dita dig for desperately needed water, Paul regains consciousness and thinks they are digging his grave. He buries the treasure and attacks Joe from behind with a knife. Dita is forced to shoot and kill Paul. When they spot a caravan, Joe and Dita are saved.Harry Pierce  and his friend, Willie Piper , invest $5,000 in a motion picture studio. They are sold a deed to the Edison Studio by a con man, Joe Gorman , who immediately leaves town with his girlfriend, Leota Van Cleef . The couple heads to Hollywood where he poses as a European director, Sergei Toumanoff, who plans to make a film starring Leota. Meanwhile, Harry and Willie pursue Gorman across the country in hopes of getting their money back after learning that the deed they purchased is worthless. They hop off a freight train near Los Angeles and stumble onto the set of the western film that Toumanoff happens to be directing. He is furious with the interruption, but the head of the movie studio, Mr. Snavely , hires Harry and Willie because he is impressed with their "stunt work". Toumanoff plots to dispose of Harry and Willie before they can learn his true identity, and he arranges for Willie to double for Leota during a dangerous airplane stunt. His cohort, Hinds , sabotages their parachute and arranges for live bullets to be fired from the other plane in the scene, but Harry and Willie manage to avoid harm. After viewing the film of the airplane stunt, Snavely decides that Harry and Willie would make a great comedy team, and assigns a visibly annoyed Toumanoff to direct them in a film. . Gorman and Leota then go about robbing the studio safe of $75,000, but are discovered by Harry and Willie, who give chase. The studio's Keystone Kops are asked by Harry and Willie, who believe that they are real policemen, to assist in the chase. The Kops decide to play along, believing that they are on the same work team. The chase progresses onto the city streets before ending at an airport where the swindlers are finally captured. Unfortunately, the stolen money is blown away by the wind generated by the airplane's propeller.Defense attorney Dwight Bradley Masen is successful in seeking the acquittal of a young man, Rudi Walchek, accused of knifing to death the 19-year-old son of a local locksmith, but when Rudi lets a comment slip after the trial, Masen realizes he has defended a guilty man. Masen discovers that Rudi is also a member of a syndicate extorting money from the scared merchants in the locksmith's neighborhood. After unearthing new evidence, Masen tries to convince the D.A. to retry the case, but the latter refuses on grounds that it would be double jeopardy. Masen discovers that the head of the citizens' crime commission, is also involved in the syndicate. In a rage Masen kills Layford, but the murder is pinned on Rudi. Despite sensing a higher justice at work, Masen feels obliged to defend Rudi once again. This time Rudi is found guilty. Masen confesses to the D.A. that he is the culprit, but the D.A. feels justice has been served and refuses to reopen the case. Masen makes one final visit to Rudi in prison, confesses, gives him the murder weapon and turns his back to Rudi to await his fate.Lin Vanner , is manager of an oil company. The payroll has been stolen in a hold-up. His fiancée urges him to pursue the suspect in hope that he will gain recognition. Deducing the road the robber may have taken over the border with Mexico, he goes along to intercept him. He shoots a man who shouts back at him and does not raise his hands when challenged by Lin. Too late Lin learns that the man could not raise one arm because it was injured and this was the reason for his shouting rather than complying with the demand he raise his hands; he was not guilty of the robbery. Troubled at his action and abandoned by his fiancée, Lin takes it on himself to tell the dead man's wife, Ellen  - but on arrival he is mistaken for an applicant for a helper to keep the dead man's farm going until his widow's son is old enough to take over. Lin believes that this opportunity has been given to him to make amends for his mistake and he gives up his position to labour as a man-of-all-work on the farm. The story is told in a flash-back when, with Father Gomez  by his side he tells the whole story, as he is being pursued by the police for another killing.Slip and Sach's boss, David J. Thurston, has allegedly committed suicide. Slip finds a book of matches with the name of a local nightclub on his boss' desk and finds out from Gabe that a gambling casino is being run out of it. Slip comes to the conclusion that the club had something to do with his boss' death and sets out to find his murderer. The boys get jobs at the club and Louie poses as a rich cattlemen as they gather the information to convict the murderers.T. C. Jeffords  is a wealthy cattle baron who feels the Herrera family is squatting illegally on his property, The Furies. T. C.'s beloved daughter, Vance , who is as obsessed with wealth and every bit as ruthless as her father, has a close bond with Juan Herrera in secret. What she wants more is a proper husband who can run the giant ranch with her once T. C. is gone. She falls in love with Rip Darrow , who holds a grudge against T. C., believing a portion of The Furies land to be rightfully his. Vance is shocked when Rip accepts a $50,000 bribe from T. C. to permanently get out of her life. Rip opens a bank in town near a saloon he owns called The Legal Tender. T. C. is so self-possessed, he pays bills with "T. C." notes rather than actual dollars. One day, he brings home to The Furies a woman, Flo Burnett , who wants to marry T. C. for his money. Vance comes to resent this intruder so much, she disfigures Flo in a fit of rage. Now that he hates the daughter he once cherished, T. C. cuts off all contact with her. He decides to run off her friends, the Herreras, who engage T. C.'s men in a violent gunfight. When they surrender, T. C. cruelly has Juan Herrera hanged. Swearing vengeance, Vance travels about the west buying up "T. C." notes. Her father's wealth is eroding, to the point that he even goes to Flo in a vain attempt to borrow $50,000 he needs to save The Furies. Vance conspires with her old lover Rip to deceive T. C., giving him false hope that a wealthy investor is lending him the money. Upon discovering what his daughter has done, T. C. congratulates her on her cunning. He declares that it's not too late for him to "start from scratch," but before he can, the bereaved mother of Juan Herrera guns him down.A gang of marauding bandits approaches a mountain farming village, but their chief recognizes they have ransacked this village before, and decides it is best to spare it until the harvest in several months. A villager overhears this. The farmers go to their elder, who declares that they should hire samurai to help defend the village. Since they have nothing to offer but food, the elder tells them to "find hungry samurai." Several men go to the city, but are turned away by every samurai they ask. They watch as an experienced samurai, Kambei, deftly rescues a young boy taken hostage by a thief. Impressed, a young samurai named Katsushirō asks to become his disciple. Kambei insists that he walk with him as a friend. The farmers are overjoyed when Kambei agrees to help them. With Katsushirō's assistance, he recruits four more masterless samurai: Gorobei Katayama, clever and good natured; Heihachi, a good-humored samurai with mediocre swordsmanship; Shichirōji, an old friend of Kambei's; and Kyūzō, a taciturn master swordsman. Although Kambei had judged that seven samurai would be necessary, time is running short. The villagers beg him to take Katsushirō and, after some prodding, he agrees. The clownish Kikuchiyo, whom Kambei had rejected, follows them, ignoring their attempts to drive him away. When the samurai arrive, the villagers cower in their homes. The samurai feel insulted by their cold reception. Suddenly, the alarm is raised; the villagers, fearing that the bandits have returned, beg the new arrivals to protect them. Kikuchiyo, who raised the false alarm, rebukes the villagers for their poor behavior. The samurai accept him, bringing their number to seven. The villagers offer white rice to the samurai, the best they have, while they eat millet. As they prepare, the two groups slowly come to trust each other. However, when the samurai discover that the villagers have murdered and robbed fleeing samurai in the past, they become angry. Kikuchiyo castigates his comrades for ignoring the hardships that the farmers have to overcome to survive, including harassment from the warrior class. This reveals his origins as a farmer's son to Kambei. The anger the samurai felt turns to shame. They construct fortifications and train the farmers for battle. Katsushirō, the youngest samurai, begins a relationship with Shino, who had been forced to masquerade as a boy by her father to protect her from the supposedly lustful samurai. As the time for the raid approaches, two bandit scouts are killed, while another is captured and forced to reveal the location of their camp. Three of the samurai, guided by Rikichi, strike preemptively. Many bandits are killed, but Heihachi is slain by gunfire. When a woman emerges from the bandits' burning house, she sees Rikichi and runs back inside to perish in the flames. Rikichi reveals that this was his wife, who had been kidnapped and defiled. When the bandits attack, they are confounded by the new fortifications. Several are killed attempting to scale the barricades or cross the moats. However, they possess three dangerous muskets. Kyūzō sets out on his own and returns with a musket. A jealous Kikuchiyo later abandons his post to get another musket, leaving his contingent of farmers leaderless. Although he succeeds, the bandits attack his post, overwhelming and killing some of the farmers. Kambei is forced to send reinforcements, leaving the main post undermanned when the bandit chief leads a charge against this position. Although they are repelled, Gorobei is shot and killed. Yohei is also slain. Kambei's stratagem is to allow one bandit to enter through a gap in the fortifications, block the rest with a "wall" of spears, and kill the lone enemy. This succeeds several times. On the second night, Kambei instructs them to prepare for a final, decisive battle. When morning breaks, Kambei orders his forces to allow the remaining bandits in. Most of the attackers are killed, but their leader takes refuge in a hut unseen. In what is portrayed as a dishonorable act, he shoots Kyūzō from the hut, killing him. A despondent Katsushirō seeks to avenge his hero, but an enraged Kikuchiyo charges ahead of him, only to be shot himself. Kikuchiyo kills the bandit chief before dying. Kambei and Shichirōji sadly observe "we've survived once again". Afterward, the three surviving samurai watch the villagers happily planting the next crop. They reflect on the relationship between the warrior and farming classes: though they have won the battle, they have lost their friends with little to show for it. "Again we are defeated," Kambei muses. "The winners are those farmers. Not us."At a secret aviation research station in the English countryside, an international group of scientists are working on the prototype of a revolutionary new aircraft, known as the M7, capable of flying at up to 2,000 miles per hour. The atmosphere is competitive rather than co-operative, with fierce rivalry between the various scientists. The project leader Michael Heathley  is so wrapped up with the M7 that his wife Lydia  feels neglected and that she is being sidelined in favour of her husband's work. At a social gathering she strikes up a conversation with Heathley's colleague Alex Leon , and the pair are soon circling one another. Meanwhile Heathley is desperate to test the M7, but is continually stonewalled by facility director Carrington . Matters take a sinister turn when Carrington is killed, and the project members realise there is a spy in their midst. The M7 is finally given its first tense test flight, and emerges intact. The group continue to work on modifications to iron out minor problems identified on the test flight. The finished version then takes to the sky, but this time the spy shows his hand and tries to hijack the aircraft.Cornelia Van Gorder  is a mystery author who lives in a town terrorized by a mysterious murderer known only as "The Bat". The Bat is said to be a man with no face who murders women at night by ripping out their throats with steel claws. Early in the film, The Bat enters Van Gorder's house and releases a bat, which bites van Gorder's maid Lizzy . With Lizzy in a panic, fearing she may now have contracted "the rabies", an outbreak of which local papers have reported. Van Gorder calls her doctor, Dr Malcolm Wells , who is conducting research on bats. Meanwhile, the whole town is searching for a million-dollar stash of looted bank securities that were recently stolen. Dr. Wells discovers the location of the treasure when the thief confides in him. Wells then murders the thief in cold blood, presumably so that he can take the treasure for himself, which he believes to be hidden in van Gorder's house. A series of break-ins and murders by The Bat brings the local chief of detectives, Andy Anderson ([[Gavin Gordon  to the Van Gorder house. The Bat then murders two people in the Van Gorder house, Mark Fleming  and Judy Hollander . Anderson attempts to determine the identity of The Bat, suspecting both Wells and Van Gorder's new butler, Warner ([[John Sutton . Wells is removed from suspicion, however, when he is murdered by The Bat in his lab. Miss Van Gorder cleverly manages to capture The Bat inside the secret room in her house. The Bat shoots a detective named Davenport ([[Robert Williams , he is then shot by Warner. Warner unmasks The Bat and he is revealed to be Lieutenant Anderson.After hard fighting in the Battle of San Pietro, the infantrymen of the American 36th Division are given five days of much needed rest. Sergeant "Pete" Peterson  meets WAC Lieutenant Eleanor "Ellie" MacKay  in a cemetery. However, his attempts to become better acquainted are brushed off. Later, Pete's friend and commanding officer, Major Blackford , tells him he has been given a battlefield promotion and is now a lieutenant. When Sergeant McFee  becomes upset because he has not received a letter from his wife in a long time, Pete takes him to the post office to investigate, and finds Ellie working there. This time, he persuades her to go out with him. She still tries to keep things from becoming serious, revealing that she almost married another soldier, except he got killed, and does not want to risk falling in love again. However, when the division's leave is cut short, she cannot stay away. Pete gets her to agree to marry him on his next leave. Blackford assigns Pete and his platoon to take out a German roadblock. Pete spots two deadly German 88 guns commanding the road on which American tanks are advancing. However, when one of his men urges him to attack the guns, Pete rejects the idea; with Ellie on his mind, he has become overcautious. The 88s knock out the lead American tank, from which Blackford is directing the attack. The major is killed. Pete himself is wounded by an artillery barrage and wakes up in a hospital. Blaming himself for his friend's death , Pete sinks into a depression, unwilling to see anyone. A visit from Ellie brings him out of it. Pete tells her that he has been given a three day leave before being sent back to the United States, safely out of combat. Together out in the countryside, they get married. However, Pete's guilt makes him decide to rejoin his unit. Ellie does not try to stop him. Afterward, she discovers she is pregnant, which means she will have to leave the army. Pete is hit when he reconnoiters ahead, and his men are ordered to retreat, leaving him behind. Unwilling to believe her husband is dead, Ellie searches everywhere for him without success. When Rome is liberated, she finds him; he had been taken prisoner, but was freed when the Germans retreated.Dr. Frank Matson, a physician, steals $200,000 from mob boss John Wheeler henchmen after a robbery Wheeler and henchman Ollie have pulled off. Forced to go on the run, Matson also takes Wheeler's girlfriend Laura Thorsen with him. After hiding out in Mexico, word gets back to Matson that Wheeler knows where he is. He and Laura go back to Los Angeles planning to return the money, only to find Wheeler has been shot by Ollie. About to meet the same fate, Matson produces a gun and kills Ollie instead. Laura is waiting for him at a cafe. As they leave, Matson turns to go back for a pack of cigarettes, but is hit by a car coming down the one-way street.The play Or iravu depicted events that happen in a single night. Older incidents were depicted using flashbacks. However in the film version, flash backs were replaced with a linear narration.The film takes place on an American Naval cargo ship, the USS Reluctant, during the waning days of World War II. The ship’s captain, Lieutenant Commander Morton  is proud of his spotless record supplying the U.S. fleet. An unpleasant and uncaring man, Morton's command style shows little concern for the crew’s working or emotional comfort. His executive officer/cargo chief Lieutenant JG Douglas Roberts , an able and efficient officer who has an excellent relationship with the crew often bending Morton's draconian rules to allow them some leeway. In recognition of the Reluctant's service Morton receives a palm tree which he cherishes and keeps near the ship’s bridge. The crew despises both the tree and Morton as it is widely known that Roberts and not Morton is responsible for the ship's efficiency. Roberts has grown tired of his dull duties as a cargo officer. Embarrassed that he’s stuck in a tedious job in a safe rear area while other men are risking their lives, he repeatedly requests a transfer to a unit on the front lines of the Pacific theatre. Morton however, also aware that Roberts is responsible for the ship's sterling record, consistently refuses to endorse the transfer but by regulation must forward the letters up the chain of command. Since there is little hope for an officer who requests transfer with his captain's disapproval, Roberts is consistantly denied his request by the admirals. Mr. Roberts becomes increasingly frustrated in his requests for a transfer and his letters begin to include descriptions of disharmony aboard the ship, much to Morton's annoyance. Roberts shares quarters with Ensign Frank Pulver , an extremly lazy and self-serving junior officer in charge of laundry and morale. Pulver rarely leaves his quarters spending most of his time idling in his bunk. Pulver is intimidated by Morton and avoids the captain at all costs, so much so that Morton even forgets that Pulver is part of the crew. Roberts bypasses the chain of command to surreptitiously request crew liberty from one of Morton’s superiors. Liberty is granted and the ship sails to a South Pacific island, but Morton denies the crew their shore leave. Roberts angrily confronts the captain. Morton shows Roberts a Commander's hat with gold braids on the visor and states that if the ship continues to set cargo records the admiral will give Morton a promotion to [[Commander  he must more firmly handle the crew. Roberts reluctantly acquiesces so the crew can have their much needed liberty. On liberty the ship’s crew lets loose after months of pent up frustration. They act deplorably and many are arrested and hauled back to the ship by the Army's military police. Eventually, a large unit of the Navy's shore patrol arrives and surround the ship locking it down. The next morning after a dressing-down by the port admiral, Morton boards the ship irate after being ordered to leave port immediately. The men of the ship are mystified by Roberts' new strict attitude. Morton misleads them into thinking that Roberts is interested in a promotion. When a crew member informs Roberts of a new Navy policy which might assist him in getting a transfer despite the captain's opposition, Roberts responds sharply and refuses to take advantage of it. Roberts' becomes aware that his rapport with the crew has been affected. News of the Allied victory in Europe arrives and Roberts becomes further depressed, knowing the war may end soon without him seeing combat. Inspired by a patriotic radio speech celebrating VE Day, Roberts' mood breaks as he throws the captain’s prized palm tree overboard. The captain discovers that the palm tree is missing a short time later and with apparently no-one to blame orders the crew to battle stations. He eventually realizes that Roberts is the only person aboard who would have the nerve to make such a bold move. Morton summons Roberts to his quarters and begins accusing him, but Roberts calmly denies any involvement which escalates Morton’s anger to the point of illness. Because a microphone has been left open during the confrontation, the crew overhears the conversation and learns the Roberts has sacrificed his own chance at transfer for their comfort. Weeks later, Roberts receives a transfer that he didn’t request. The ship's doctor confides to Roberts that the crew risked court-martial by submitting a transfer request with Morton's forged imprimatur. Before Roberts leaves, the crew makes and presents him a home made medal, the Order of the Palm, for "action against the enemy". Several weeks later Ensign Pulver, who has been appointed cargo chief in Roberts absence, receives a pair of letters. The first is from Roberts, now aboard the destroyer USS Livingston, who speaks enthusiastically about his new assignment on the front lines near Okinawa, and his respect for the men on the Reluctant for refusing to surrender to tedium or to Morton's bullying. He goes on saying that he is looking at the medal and would rather have it than the Medal of Honor. The second letter is from "Forenel" a friend of Pulver’s on the Livingston informing him that Roberts had been killed in a kamakazi attack shortly after the first letter was written. A furious and emboldened Pulver throws the captain’s replacement palm tree overboard and marches into Morton’s cabin, angrily demanding to know why Morton has cancelled the showing of a film that night. Morton slowly shakes his head in chagrin that his command difficulties haven’t changed a jot.Robert Morley and Katharine Hepburn play Samuel and Rose Sayer, brother and sister British Methodist missionaries in the village of Kungdu in German East Africa at the beginning of World War I in August/September 1914. Their mail and supplies are delivered by the rough-and-ready Canadian boat captain Charlie Allnut  of the African Queen, whose coarse behaviour they tolerate in a rather stiff manner.  When Charlie warns them that war has broken out between Germany and Britain, the Sayers choose to stay on, only to witness the Germans burning down the mission village and herding the villagers away. When Samuel protests, he is beaten by a German soldier. After the Germans leave, Samuel becomes delirious with fever and soon dies. Charlie returns shortly afterward. He helps Rose bury her brother, and they set off in the African Queen. In discussing their situation, Charlie mentions to Rose that the Germans have a gunboat, the Queen Louisa , which patrols a large lake downriver, effectively blocking any British counter-attacks. Rose comes up with a plan to convert the Queen into a torpedo boat, and sink the Louisa. Charlie points out that navigating the river would be suicidal: to reach the lake they would have to pass a German fort and negotiate several dangerous rapids. But Rose is insistent and eventually persuades him to go along with the plan. Charlie hoped after passing the first obstacle that Rose would be discouraged, but she is confident they can handle what is yet to come, and argues that Charlie promised to go all the way. During their journey down the river, Charlie, Rose and the African Queen encounter many obstacles, including the German fort and three sets of rapids. The first set of rapids is rather easy; they get through with minimal flooding in the boat. But Rose and Charlie have to duck down when they pass the fortress and the soldiers begin shooting at them, blowing two bullet holes in the top of the boiler and causing one of the steam pressure hoses to disconnect from the boiler, which in turn, causes the boat's engine to stop running. Luckily, Charlie manages to reattach the hose to the boiler just as they are about to enter the second set of rapids. The boat rolls and pitches crazily as it goes down the rapids, leading to more severe flooding in the boat and also collapsing the stern canopy. While celebrating their success, the two find themselves in an embrace. Embarrassed, they break off, but eventually succumb and strike up a relationship. The couple decide to take a pit stop to gather more fuel and drain the boat. Back on the river, Charlie and Rose watch crocodiles frolic on the nearby river bank when the third set of rapids comes up. This time, there is a loud metallic clattering noise as the boat goes over the falls. Once again, the couple dock on the river bank to check for damage. When Charlie dives under the boat, he finds the propeller shaft bent sideways and a blade missing from the propeller. Luckily, with some expert skills and using suggestions from Rose, Charlie manages to straighten the shaft and weld a new blade on to the propeller, and they are off again.  All appears lost when Charlie and Rose "lose the channel" and the boat becomes mired in the mud amid dense reeds near the mouth of the river. First, they try to tow the boat through the muck, only to have Charlie come out of the water covered with leeches. All their efforts to free the African Queen fail. With no supplies left and short of potable water, Rose and a feverish Charlie turn in, convinced they have no hope of survival. Before going to sleep Rose prays that she and Charlie be admitted into Heaven. As they sleep, exhausted and beaten, heavy rains raise the river's level and float the Queen off of the mud and into the lake which, it turns out, is just a short distance from their location. Once on the lake, they narrowly avoid being spotted by the Louisa. That night, they set about converting some oxygen cylinders into torpedoes using gelatin explosives and improvised detonators that use nails as the firing pins for rifle cartridges. They then attach the torpedoes through the bow of the Queen. At the height of a storm, they push the Queen out onto the lake, intending to set it on a collision course with the Louisa. Unfortunately, the holes in the bow in which the torpedoes were pushed through are not sealed, allowing water to pour into the boat, causing it to sink lower and eventually the Queen tips over. Charlie is captured and taken aboard the Louisa, where he is questioned by the captain. Believing Rose to have drowned, he makes no attempt to defend himself against accusations of spying and is sentenced to death by hanging. However, Rose is captured too and Charlie hollers her name, then pretends not to know her. The captain questions her, and Rose confesses the whole plot proudly, deciding they have nothing to lose anyway. The captain sentences her too to be executed as a spy. Charlie asks the German captain to marry them before executing them. After a brief marriage ceremony, the Germans prepare to hang them, when there is a sudden explosion and the Louisa starts to sink. The Louisa has struck the overturned hull of the African Queen and detonated the torpedoes. Rose's plan has worked, if a little belatedly, and the newly married couple swim to safety in Kenya.The film series is a complicated serial with more twists than a maze that basically centers around a U.S. Air Force captain and his quest for missing microfilm that contains vital information. The heroic Buster Crabbe plays Captain Roger Drum, who shoots down an enemy plane on its way to Africa with the secret microfilm. Intent on revealing the subversive group that the message was for, Drum assumes the pilot's identity and flies to Africa himself and crashes in the jungle. He is rescued by the pacific Rock People, led by Princess Pha , and is renamed Thunda, King of the Congo, after he rings a temple gong in alarm. With the subversives believing Thunda is their missing pilot and under constant attack by another tribe called the Cave Men, our hero plots to bring down the subversives who are searching for a new metal more radioactive than uranium. At the end, Thunda  clear the jungle of villains and reunites the Rock People and Cave Men for well.The Stooges are janitors-turned-delegates after being recruited to support bad news political candidate Hammond Egger. Egger's corrupt campaign manager Bill Wick ([[Kenneth MacDonald  and his assistant Jim Digger  are desperate after the original three delegates departed the campaign after realizing Egger was rotten. Upon finding the bumbling Stooges, who nearly destroy Digger's toupee after vacuuming it from his head, Wick is enthralled. He hired the Stooges outright, and lays out their responsibilities as delegates. They gladly accept and start caucusing. It does not take long for the Stooges to realize that Egger is a crook, and throw their votes to opposing candidate Abel Lamb Stewer. When Wick finds out that his new boys have double-crossed him, he comes looking for revenge, with the trio defeating Wick and Digger in a wild fight with the boys winning by capsizing them in the bathtub.The story commences in 1939, Alex Schottland , a general in the German Army, is actually a British agent who was planted in Germany toward the end of the First World War. He is growing weary of being a spy, but is urged to continue by his friend and fellow British agent, Cornaz , who is posing as a watchmaker. Schottland passes on information that Germany is about to attack Russia. Capt. Reinisch , Schottland's suspicious aide, discovers that Schottland has changed his name from Scotland and is of British ancestry. However, his superiors scoff at the possibility that Schottland is a spy. To deflect suspicion, Schottland says that "defeatists" in the high command have been leaking information to the enemy. Cornaz is arrested after their courier to the British is arrested. Schottland, as a customer at the watchmaker's shop, is summoned to headquarters for questioning. There Schottland is forced to watch impassively as Gestapo officer Mueller  tortures Cornaz to death in a gruesome scene, in which a fire hose is used to force water into Cornaz's bowels. Schottland is arrested but soon released because of intervention by a high-ranking Nazi, Ernst Kaltenbrunner. Cornaz's replacement is Lili Geyr , an attractive pianist. He pretends to be having an affair with Geyr while actually giving her information. That antagonizes Reinisch, who is in love with Geyr. Schottland is ordered to the front, and shoots a corporal who interrupts him broadcasting information to the Allies. Schottland returns to Berlin, and, now unable to transmit important information, has decided to resort to sabotage. He begins to cunningly trick Hitler into making strategic military blunders. Reinisch kills Geyr as she attempts to escape to the Allies. Schottland kills Reinisch, and subsequently casts suspicion on Muller as a traitor. Schottland is incriminated, and he crosses the lines to be captured by British troops.<ref namehttp://www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title.jsp?scarlettTitleIdThe Two-Headed Spy |accessdateTCM.com}}The morning after their blunder, their boat{{spaced ndash}}containing 8 tons of explosives intended to destroy the air control tower{{spaced ndash}}was attacked by a German vessel. The Norwegians destroyed their boat by exploding their payload, and Baalsrud and some other surviving soldiers fled. They swam ashore in ice cold Arctic waters, and Baalsrud was the only one to escape the Nazi onslaught and, soaking wet and missing one shoe, he escaped up a ravine and shot and killed a Gestapo officer. He evaded capture for roughly two months, suffering from frostbite and snow blindness. He failed in his bid to reach the border of neutral Sweden and threw himself on the mercy of some Norwegian citizens who happened to have access to the Norwegian underground. While hiding in their barn, he amputated a significant number of his own frostbitten toes with an ordinary knife. These citizens managed to move Baalsrud close to the Swedish border, but were forced to leave him in a snow cave for roughly two weeks before they returned and delivered him to a reindeer herder who finally took him over the frontier to safety. He recuperated in a Swedish hospital for seven months, returned to England through South Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and America before rejoining the fight.{{cite web}}{{Expand section}} Captain Hale  leads a company of infantrymen from the 1st Infantry Division from the D-Day landings through the Normandy campaign. They resent the presence of a fresh lieutenant Joe Mallory . http://www.allmovie.com/movie/breakthrough-v85921The boys are on their way home from a masquerade party when they hear noises in a warehouse and decide to investigate. They find the warehouse is being robbed and they are mistakenly captured by the police and sentenced for robbing it. Gabe, as their lawyer, gets them off with just probation but Slip insists that he and Sach accept jail time in order to find out who is behind the series of robberies in the neighborhood. He deduces that the instructions are being sent from inside the prison via a short wave radio. Upon entering the prison they are mistaken for notorious criminals and make fast friends with the masterminds behind the robberies. Whitey, who owns a short wave radio, overhears the plans and informs Louie who runs out into the street and tells the police of the plans that his sweet shop will be robbed next. The cop doesn't believe him, but eventually Louie is able to persuade the warden of the prison when Whitey hears about a jailbreak attempt. The warden sets up a sting operation and catches the gang that was behind the robberies and the boys are exonerated.{{Expand section}} In the France of the 1870s, a string of strange murders happen in the Rue Morgue. The authorities are baffled, but they do have one man who may have the answers, Prof. Dupin. When he is approached by the police to help, he agrees. Soon a set of suspects are found, including a sailor named Jacques and a professor named Marais, who is involved in unauthorized  animal experiments.During an intense summer heat wave in New York City, two cops are murdered and it's up to the detectives of the 87th Precinct to find the killer. Steve Carelli  and Mike Maguire  are the lead investigators on the case, but they can't seem to make any progress, and their work is made more difficult by a reporter, Hank Miller , who keeps sticking his nose in. The two cops try to keep their personal lives separate from their work, but it keeps bleeding through. When Maguire is shot and killed, Carelli has to comfort his partner's sexpot wife Alice , and then goes on a bender with the reporter, inadvertently revealing his suspicions about the case, and putting his girlfriend Teddy, a deaf-mute author , in jeopardy. When a hood  shows up at her apartment, Carelli overpowers him and forces a confession: he killed all the cops, but Maguire had been the intended victim all along, as his wife wanted him out of the way.North-West Mounted Police Sub-Inspector O'Rourke and his Cree half brother Cajou are returning from a trapping trip in northern Canada when they encounter a burned wagon train and sole survivor Grace. Despite the advice of the Metis scout Batouche the naive new Mountie commander Inspector Benton  believes it to be a Cree attack, however the Sioux from across the border are trying to force the Cree into being allies in their struggle with the U.S. 7th Cavalry . O'Rourke goes against his commanding officer who have offended the Cree by disarming them; O'Rourke losing his friendship with Cajou when he personally has to take his rifle away. He later mutinies to save the Mounties who have to leave their Fort Saskatchewan for a rendezvous with a larger command at Fort Walsh. He must also aid Grace , but she is not as helpless as she first seems as an American lawman  has papers for her extradition for murder.Tennessee wilderness settlers, Davy Crockett and best friend George "Georgie" Russel volunteer to fight with General Andrew Jackson in the Creek War. After a victorious battle, Crockett and Russel return home over the protestations of their superiors. Returning the next season, the pair find that the pursuing American forces have reached a stalemate chasing the remnant Creek forces through the swamps. Georgie Russel is ambushed while scouting for the Native American positions, but Crockett is able to track the Creeks back to camp. In exchange for Russel's life, Crockett challenges Red Stick, the Creek tribe's remaining chief, to a tomahawk duel. Crockett emerges victorious but spares the life of Red Stick on condition he will sign the American peace treaty.  Crockett and Russel leave home once again to scout virgin territory being opened for settlement. There the pair encounter a man named Big Foot who is running Charlie Two Shirts off their land and reselling it. After befriending a family of Creek refugees who have been forced from their homes, Crockett agrees to become magistrate for the area. Confronting Big Foot in hand to hand combat, Crockett eventually defeats his opponent and arrests him and his accomplices. Not long after, Crockett receives a letter from his sister-in-law which relates that Polly, his wife, has died.  Crockett agrees to run for the state legislature when he learns of the unrivaled candidacy of Amos Thorpe, an unscrupulous politician in league with men trying to lay claim to Cherokee lands. Then at the request of Andrew Jackson, he runs for Congress. Handily elected, Crockett becomes a popular member of the House of Representatives and of Andrew Jackson who has since become president of the United States. Aware of Crockett's views of Native American rights, Jackson's underlings arrange for Crockett to take a speaking tour across the eastern part of the country during the introduction of a legislative bill to usurp Indian treaty lands. Hearing of the bill, Georgie Russel rides to Philadelphia to fetch Crockett. The pair arrive back in Washington, D.C. where Crockett makes an impassioned speech before the House of Representatives against the bill, aware that it will cost him his political career.  Crockett learns of the embattled Texans at the Alamo and decides to join them, with Georgie Russel reluctantly following. In route to San Antonio the pair are joined by a riverboat gambler named Thimblerig. Davy spots smoke signals from the Comanches when they enter Texas. Next, they see a bison stampede and watch a tribesman fall off his horse. Davy and Georgie nickname the Comanche "Busted Luck" due to his bad luck and that he speaks no English to give his real name, but neverless tags along with them. After reaching the Alamo, the Texan garrison successfully holds out against several attacks by General Santa Anna until being finally overrun by Mexican troops. After they successfully manage to scale the walls, the Mexicans outnumber the Texans, killing all of them, including "Busted Luck" and Thimblerig, as well as Jim Bowie, who is sick in bed. Georgie is shot twice and is killed. Davy, the last survivor, fights valiantly on, taking down several Mexicans, though it is obvious he will get killed eventually.In the year 1868, rumors of a sea monster attacking ships in the Pacific Ocean have created apprehension and fear among sailors, disrupting the shipping lanes. Prof. Pierre M. Aronnax and his assistant, Conseil, are on their way to Saigon but get stuck in San Francisco by the halting of ships. The U.S. government invites Aronnax onto an expedition to either prove or disprove the monster's existence. One of their fellow crew is the cocky master harpooneer Ned Land. After months of fruitless searching, the monster is spotted one night. The ship fires at it with cannons, and it immediately charges. Ned and Aronnax are thrown overboard, and Conseil goes in after Aronnax. The warship, burning and helpless, drifts silently and no one on board answers when the overboard passengers cry for help. The three drift in the ocean, eventually finding a strange-looking metal vessel, and realize the "monster" is a man-made "submerging boat", that seems to have been deserted. Inside, Aronnax wanders down into the Salon, where he finds a massive viewing window and sees an underwater funeral taking place, presumably for a man on the submerging boat who was killed by the expeditionary ship's guns. When the submarine crew returns to their ship, they capture the three castaways. The captain introduces himself as Nemo, master of the Nautilus. He returns Ned and Conseil to the deck, while Aronnax, whom he recognizes for his work and research, is allowed to stay. He tempts Aronnax to remain with him, but Aronnax prefers to share his companions' fate. Nemo prepares to submerge Nautilus with the three stowaways on the deck, but at the last moment changes his mind and allows them to stay. After dinner that night, Nemo takes them all on an underwater expedition to gather supplies, but Ned tries to salvage a treasure chest from a sunken wreck, almost getting attacked by a shark. Later on, Nemo takes Aronnax to the penal colony island of Rura Penthe. Nemo reveals he was once a prisoner there himself, as were many of the crew of the Nautilus. The prisoners there are loading a munitions ship. It embarks at sunset, whereupon the Nautilus rams it, destroying its munitions cargo and killing the entire crew. When confronted by Aronnax, an anguished Nemo says that his actions have just saved thousands from death in war; he also discloses that this "hated nation" had tortured his wife and son to death in an attempt to force him to reveal the secrets of his work. Meanwhile, Ned discovers the coordinates of Nemo's secret island base, Vulcania, and releases messages in bottles, hoping somebody will find them and free him from captivity. Off the coast of New Guinea, the Nautilus gets stranded on a reef. Ned is surprised when Nemo freely allows him to go ashore with Conseil, ostensibly to collect specimens. Ned goes off alone inland to explore avenues of escape. While kneeling at a pool to drink he sees a number of human skulls on stakes. Unbeknownst to him he has been spotted by a cannibal in a nearby tree. Realizing his danger, Ned runs for his life and rejoins Conseil as they are chased back to the Nautilus. Despite remaining aground, Nemo is unconcerned and the cannibals are repelled from the ship by electrical charges circulated on its hull. Captain Nemo is furious at Ned for not following his orders, and confines him to the submarine's brig as punishment. A warship approaches, firing and striking the submarine just as it breaks free of the reef. It descends into the depths, where it attracts the attentions of a giant squid. The electric charge fails to repel the monster, so Nemo and his men are forced to surface in order to fight and dislodge the beast. During the battle, Nemo is caught in one of the squid's tentacles; Ned, having escaped from captivity in the struggle and in spite of his hatred for the captain , jumps to Nemo's rescue and saves his captor's life. As a result, Nemo has a change of heart; he claims now to want to make peace with the outer world, by sharing his secrets of the sea. However, this is to be short-lived. As the Nautilus nears Vulcania, Nemo finds the island surrounded by warships, whose marines are converging on his hideout. As Nemo goes ashore, Ned attempts to identify himself as the author of the bottled messages to no avail. Aronnax realizes this and becomes furious, recognizing that Nemo will destroy all evidence of his discoveries. Sure enough, Nemo plants a bomb in his hideout, but is mortally wounded from a slug to the back while returning to the Nautilus. After haphazardly navigating the submarine away from Vulcania, Nemo announces he will be "taking the Nautilus down for the last time." Loyal to Nemo to the very end, his entire crew declare that they will accompany their captain in death. Aronnax, Conseil, and Ned are taken forcibly to their cabins. Ned fights back, escapes to the now deserted bridge, and manages to surface the Nautilus, hitting a reef in the process and causing the ship to begin flooding rapidly. In his final moments, Nemo staggers to a viewing window, collapses, and looks at his beloved ocean one last time as he dies. Aronnax tries to go back and retrieve his journal, which contains a detailed account of the voyage, but the urgency of their escape obliges Ned to knock him unconscious and carry him out. The companions witness Vulcania destroyed in an explosion. Aronnax's diary of the voyage is also lost forever, and when Ned apologizes for having hit him, the Professor replies "Perhaps you did mankind a service, Ned". The shock from the explosion causes the Nautilus to sink even more quickly, and as it disappears beneath the waves forever, Nemo's last words to Aronnax echo: "There is hope for the future. And when the world is ready for a new and better life, all this will someday come to pass, in God's good time."Paul Hoplin is mastermind of a crime to collect a $500,000 ransom, threatening to use an explosive device that Jim Molner designed. He and his gang are holding Molner, wife Joan and young daughter Patty hostage. FBI agents gather in New York with representatives of an airline. Hoplin has been sending anonymous notes, suggesting that a bomb will be planted on a plane. Joan Molner is forced to go alone to collect the ransom payment, while Hoplin's accomplices, a woman named Kelly and a man named Vince, watch her husband and child in a Brooklyn penthouse apartment. Joan barely makes it back by the gang's deadline in time to prevent her husband's death. She is left alone with an ex-con, Steve, who has a history of sexual assaults on women. Forced to defend herself, she kills Steve with a shard of glass. Using the dental records of Kelly, the FBI manages to find the hideout. They disarm Vince and shoot Kelly, wounding her. Now they must find Molner's wife, but Holpin has seen newspaper reports that her husband and daughter are safe. She runs for her life into a subway, and when Hoplin pursues her, he steps on a third rail and is electrocuted.In April 1942 in the Philippines, an American motor torpedo boat is destroyed by Japanese planes. The survivors, among them Ensign Chuck Palmer , make their way ashore on Cebu. Their commander orders them to split up. Chuck pairs up with Jim Mitchell  and reaches Colonel Benson on Leyte, only to be told that he has been ordered by General Douglas MacArthur to surrender his forces soon. Chuck helps Jeanne Martinez , a Frenchwoman married to a Filipino planter, get medical assistance for a pregnant woman. Jeanne pleads with Chuck to stay and fight, but he buys an outrigger canoe  and recruits a crew of Air Corps soldiers in a desperate, but unsuccessful attempt to sail to Australia. When the boat founders, the crew is rescued by Miguel , a member of the Filipino resistance. The Americans evade capture and Chuck eventually meets Jeanne again, as well as her husband Juan , a secret supporter of the resistance movement. Chuck is ordered to stay in the Philippines to help set up a network to gather intelligence on the Japanese. Later, Juan is beaten to death in front of Jeanne in an attempt to find out where the guerrillas are hiding out. Jeanne joins the resistance and is reunited with Chuck at Christmas 1943. They begin to fall in love. After three years of fighting, Chuck, Jeanne, Jim and the rest of their band are trapped in a church by a Japanese patrol. Just when it looks as if they will be wiped out, squadrons of American planes appear overhead and explosions are heard, announcing the liberation of the Philippines is underway. The Japanese leave to face this greater threat.The Stooges tells their infant sons  a story about the time they blasted to outer space. In this story, the Stooges are assistants to Professor Jones  who travel to the planet Sunev . The planet's leader, the Grand Slitz of Sunev  greets them cordially enough, but it soon becomes apparent that he has plans to bring prehistoric men to life and take over the planet Earth. No sooner does Professor Jones catch onto the Grand Slitz's plan does he end up being tied up.  In the interim, the Stooges engage in some flirtatious activity with several Sunevian girls . At dinner, an alien leader, known officially as The High Mucky Muck  tells the Stooges to eat heartily and enjoy their meal, for it will be their last. The trio make a quick dash for the space ship, but not before encountering a prehistoric goon . The boys manage to free Professor Jones and destroy the equipment that would have conquered the Earth.The British Rocket Group, headed by Professor Bernard Quatermass, launches its first rocket into space. Shortly after its launch, all contact with the rocket and the three occupants – Carroon, Reichenheim and Green – is lost. The rocket returns to Earth, crashing in an English field. Quatermass and his assistant Briscoe arrive at the scene, along with the emergency services. Opening the rocket's hatch, they find only Carroon; there is no sign of the other two crewmembers. Carroon appears to be in shock, only able to mouth the words "Help me". He is taken to hospital while Quatermass and Briscoe investigate what happened to the rocket and its crew. It becomes evident that Carroon has been changed by something he encountered while in space. He can absorb any living thing he comes in contact with. When he absorbs a cactus in his hospital room, his right arm begins mutating. Not knowing this, Carroon's wife, Judith, hires a private investigator to break her husband out of the hospital. The escape is successful but Carroon kills and absorbs the private investigator in the process. It does not take long for Judith to discover what her husband has become and Carroon soon flees from his horrified wife. Inspector Lomax of Scotland Yard, initiates a manhunt to find the missing astronaut. Hiding out at the London docks, Carroon encounters a little girl but through sheer willpower leaves her unharmed. Instead, he heads for a zoo where he absorbs many of the animals. By now, Carroon has become completely mutated. Quatermass and Briscoe track the creature to Westminster Abbey. From his examination of tissue samples taken from Carroon, Quatermass concludes that an alien creature has taken over Carroon and will eventually release spores, endangering the entire planet. With the assistance of a television crew working at the Abbey, Quatermass succeeds in killing the creature by electrocution. As he leaves the Abbey, Quatermass ignores all those who pass him and ask what's happened, save for his assistant Marsh who than asks him what to do next. Quatermass replies that he'll start all over again. He leaves Marsh and walks away into the London night.After a whirlwind courtship, an Air Force staff sergeant who is a Korean War veteran, Joe Fitzpatrick , and his wife Maggie , a dancer, try to make their marriage work. Joe is posted to Spain; back in New York, his wife learns that he has won a raffle making them the owners of custom-built, 1955 Lincoln Futura concept. The car is delivered to Spain where it attracts attention from many people, including a famous matador. The car also comes to the attention of Joe's commanding officer, who insists he ship it back to the States to avoid promoting the image of Americans as snobbishly wealthy. This upsets Maggie. In the end, Joe sells the car to the matador and he and Maggie are reconciled.Oliver "Puddin' Head" Johnson  and Rocky Stonebridge  are on their way to Death's Head Tavern, where they work. They encounter Lady Jane , who asks them to bring a love note to the tavern singer, Bruce Martingale . At the tavern, the notorious Captain Kidd  is dining with Captain Bonney , a female pirate. She accuses Kidd of raiding ships in her territory and is asking for restitution. Kidd informs Bonney that he has hidden the amassed treasure on Skull Island, and that only he has the map to its exact location. He agrees to take her, with her ship in tow, to the island so that she can receive her share. During the discussion, Oliver happens to be waiting on them, and inadvertently switches the map for the love note that he was carrying. Rocky discovers the mistake and goes to Captain Kidd, demanding a share of the treasure and a place on the voyage in exchange for the map. Kidd ostensibly agrees, but intends to kill Oliver and Rocky once he gets the map. The voyage begins , and Kidd unsuccessfully attempts to regain the map throughout the entire voyage. . During the voyage, Kidd raids another ship, which happens to have Lady Jane on board, and she is kidnapped. The two ships finally arrive at Skull Island; Oliver and Rocky begin to dig up the treasure, when Kidd arrogantly declares his plans to dispose of them along with Captain Bonney. They alert Bonney to Kidd's true intentions, and her crew attacks. The treasure is recovered, and Bonney's crew wins the fight, with Kidd becoming her prisoner.Gunnery Sergeant Jim Moore, a Drill Instructor on Parris Island, has a thorn in his side, Private Owens , who always caves in when the pressure's on. Convinced he can make Owens into Marine material, Moore pushes Owens to the point of desertion. Barrett's screenplay expanded the play by introducing subplots of Moore having a romance with a local shop girl  and having Owens' mother  make a trip to the Marine Corps Recruit Depot to beg the Corps to keep her son in to make a man out of him.The year is 1830. The American clipper ship, the Queen, is attacked by pirates in the Hebrides . The ship's mate Kirk Hamilton  is wounded and heads to Queensland Colony in Australia for medical treatment. While at the hospital, he meets and falls in love with Elaine Jeffries , the fiancee of Martin Shannon  a rancher. A romantic rivalry develops and the pirates, who attacked Kirk and his ship kidnap her along with her friend, Nancy Holden . Kirk and Shannon pursue the pirates and they soon wind up on a volcanic island, inhabited by dinosaurs.The rocketship MR-1 , returns to Earth after the first manned flight to Mars. Thought first lost in space, when the rocket reappeared, mission control couldn't raise the crew by radio. Its ground-crew land the rocket successfully by remote control. Two survivors are found aboard: Dr. Iris Ryan  and Colonel Tom O'Bannion , his arm covered by a strange alien growth. The mission report is recounted by Dr. Ryan as she attempts to find a cure for Col. O'Bannion's arm. While exploring Mars, Ryan was attacked by a carnivorous plant, which was killed by O'Bannion; They also discover, after mistaking its legs for trees, an immense bat/rat/spider creature, who is later repelled by a freeze ray fired by Weapons Officer Jacobs. When they return to their ship, the crew finds that their radio signals are being blocked and the MR-1 is grounded by a force field. O'Bannion leads the crew to a Martian lake with a city visible on the other side. They cross in an inflatable raft, only to be stopped by a giant amoeba-like creature with a single spinning eye. The creature kills Jacobs and infects O'Bannon's arm. The survivors escape to the MR-1 and starts liftoff. The survivors then return to Earth, where O'Bannon's infected arm is cured using electric shocks. When they examine all of the data brought back by the expedition, the mission scientists find a recorded message. An alien voice announces that the MR-1 crew were allowed to leave so they can deliver a message to Earth. The Martians are watching human development and believe its technology has outpaced cultural advancement. They warn humanity to never return to Mars or Earth will be destroyed in retaliation.{{Expand section}} Gary Cooper plays "Reb" Hollister a former Confederate out to revenge himself on a group of carpetbaggers who murdered his family and destroyed their home in Georgia. With the help of his friend Wild Bill Hickok, Hollister's death is faked and he accompanies and swaps identities with Federal Marshal Martin Weatherby. Martin is an inexperienced dude from the East using the position of Marshal to impress his fiancee Tonia, whose Mexican family is being terrorised by the same gang that murdered Reb's family and terrorised Georgia. Hollister posing as the dude Martin protects both men and lets them get closer to the carpetbaggers.Wilbur Hoolick, a barber's apprentice, doesn't have enough money for train fare. Wilbur pretends to be an eleven-year-old in order to purchase a ticket for half price. Meanwhile, a valuable diamond has been stolen and the thief hides it in Hoolick's pocket without his knowledge. On the train, Wilbur gets the impression that the thief is a jealous husband. He hides in the compartment of Nancy Collins, a teacher at a private girl's school. Feeling sorry for "young" Wilbur traveling alone, she allows him to stay there for the duration of the train ride. During a stop-over, another teacher, Gretchen Brendan, boards the train and finds out that Nancy is sharing her compartment with "a man." Gretchen hurries to the school to let Nancy's fiancee, Bob Miles, in on this news. In order to protect Nancy's job and reputation, Wilbur must continue the charade of pretending to be a child. He accompanies "Aunt Nancy" to school. The jewel thief follows them in order to retrieve the stolen diamond. Along the way, Wilbur falls in love with Nancy, although she still thinks of him as a little boy. Eventually the thief retrieves the jewel and a chase ensues. In the end he is captured and Wilbur's identity is revealed.In 1898, two men are released from the Arizona Territorial Prison. One, mining engineer and geologist Peter Van Hoek , the "Dutchman", tells the warden he was framed for the robbery of a gold shipment from the Lisbon Mine. The other, John McBain , killed Bascomb, the man who had cheated him out of his land. The two men head separately to the town of Prescott, where neither is welcome. The marshal, whom Van Hoek accuses of framing him, orders him to leave town on the next stagecoach, at sundown the next day. When the Dutchman gets a room at the hotel, he meets fellow guest Ada Winton, the lonely mistress of Cyril Lounsberry . Meanwhile, McBain rescues Mexican Anita  when she is accosted on the street by some men. Though Leslie (Adam Williams, the deputy, saves McBain's life in the ensuing fight, he gives McBain the same deadline to leave, even though McBain's folks settled the township. A grateful Anita invites McBain to stay in her place, and the two are attracted to each other. The Dutchman gets Sample  to introduce him to Lounsberry. Lounsberry had married Bascomb's homely sister for her money. Van Hoek offers to sell him gold ore from an extremely rich deposit that only he knows about. It is worth at least $200,000, but Van Hoek will be satisfied with half that amount in cash. He lies when Lounsberry jokingly asks if it is from his wife's Lisbon Mine. The prospect of being a rich man in his own right and leaving for Europe with Ada makes Lounsberry agree. Van Hoek recruits a reluctant McBain and demolition expert Vincente  for his scheme. They time it so the explosion needed to extract the ore goes off as the same time as the regular blasting. They get the ore out, but when Van Hoek and McBain take it to Lounsberry, he tries to double cross them. Leslie is killed and McBain injured in the ensuing gunfight. Van Hoek takes McBain to Anita's place and digs out the bullet, then leaves in a wagon with the gold. However, Lounsberry, Sample and their men soon corner him in town during a fiesta. McBain goes to the Dutchman's aid. Then Anita has her many Mexican friends surround and disarm the villains. Van Hoek entrusts McBain and Anita with the gold, telling them he will meet them later in Durango to split it up equally. Then, keeping his word, he leaves on the stagecoach with fellow passenger Ada.A major international financier is found dead at his Hampshire home. The Record newspaper assigns its leading investigative reporter, Phillip Trent, to the case. In spite of the police cordon, he manages to gain entry to the house by posing as a relative. While there he manages to pick up some of the background to the case from Inspector Murch, the Irish detective leading the investiation. Despite Murch's suggestion that the death is suicide, Trent quickly becomes convinced that it was in fact murder. At the inquest, the coroner swiftly concludes that the deceased, Sigsbee Manderson, had killed himself. Trent, however, is given permission by his editor to continue to pursue the story. His attention is drawn to Manderson's widow, Margaret.{{Expand section}} Major Surov , is a Russian commander at the Hungarian-Austrian border crossing. With the outbreak of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, the Budapest airport is shut down and Diana , along with other international travellers from U.S., Britain, Israel, and France are forced to reach Vienna by bus. Along for the ride is one of the Hungarian dissenters hunted by the police, Paul .http://www.allmovie.com/work/the-journey-97343After being fired from two jobs, the Stooges end up being chased into a dental office. Eventually, the boys study, and graduate from dental school. The dean of the school  gives them their first recommendation to go out west , and open a practice. The boys open up shop in quiet western town, when their first customer  comes in with a mild toothache. Wearing glasses with lenses as thick as Coke bottles, Dr. Shemp proceeds to drill the patient's teeth until smoke rises from his mouth. The appointment is abruptly cut short when an irate customer  enters the office with a serious toothache. Feeling nervous, Shemp accidentally picks up the wrong book, entitled The Amateur Carpenter. They first rub sandpaper to his chest, and paste the inside of his hat which they thought it was to "varnish the lid". After discovering it is the wrong book, the boys go back to business seriously. They take the painful tooth, and yank it out as the patient is pulled off the chair, causing him to wake up. Unfortunately, Shemp extracted the wrong tooth, with the angry patient chasing after the frantic Stooges.Devereaux Burke gets a personal request from former President Andrew Jackson to help keep Texas from entering into annexation with Mexico. The movement is gaining favor because it is mistakenly believed that Texas pioneer Sam Houston supports it. The opposition leader is wealthy rancher Thomas Craden, but when Dev is ambushed by Comanche, it is Craden who comes to his rescue. Martha Ronda, who loves Craden and runs the Austin newspaper, does not know Dev is anti-annexation when she and Craden host a number of senators at their home for dinner. When they won't all agree to vote his way, Craden then refuses them permission to leave. Dev gets a signed letter from Sam Houston of his actual position, but the ink smears when he falls into a river, fleeing from Craden's men. He has difficulty persuading Martha, who publishes an incorrect story about Houston's position, but ultimately he wins her over and saves the day.Jubal Troop is a cowboy who is found in a weakened condition, without a horse. He is given shelter at Shep Horgan's large ranch, where he quickly makes an enemy in foreman Pinky, a cattleman who accuses Jubal of carrying the smell of sheep. Horgan is a cheerful, agreeable fellow who is married to an attractive, much younger woman named Mae whom he met in Canada. He takes an immediate shine to Jubal and offers him a permanent job. Behind his back, Mae also has taken a liking to Jubal, which she expresses to him in no uncertain terms. Horgan has been impressed with Jubal's work ethic and makes him foreman over the other cowhands. That further antagonizes Pinky, whom Horgan does not trust. Jubal fends off Mae's advances while developing an interest in Naomi, a young woman from a traveling wagon train of an unnamed religious group that the cowboys call "rawhiders." Pinky and the other cowboys try to run off the strangers and resent Jubal's interference on their behalf. Jubal's only ally is a drifter named Reb, who has attached himself to the wagon train. With Jubal's recommendation, Reb is hired to help him at the ranch. Pinky, who has carried on with Mae behind her husband's back, tells Horgan that his wife and Jubal have betrayed him. Horgan demands the truth from Mae, who angrily responds that she can't stand him and lies that Jubal has been seeing her. An enraged Shep rides to town and confronts Jubal, intending to kill him. Reb flips a gun to Jubal just in time and Shep is shot dead. Pinky makes another play for Mae, then beats her savagely when she pushes him away. Pinky then rallies the others to go after Jubal, persuading them that he stole Shep's wife and murdered him. A posse gets the truth from a dying Mae, that her accusations toward Jubal were completely untrue. She also reveals that Pinky beat her, just before she dies. The posse slowly circles Pinky and it's clear they intend to hang him. Jubal rides away with Naomi and Reb.In 1886, reporter Phineas Mitchell  is fired from The Star newspaper for criticizing its methods and philosophy. When his friends stand up for him, they too are discharged. As the newly unemployed men are drowning their sorrows in a bar, Steve Brodie  rushes in, claiming to have survived a jump off the Brooklyn Bridge and insisting that Mitchell write an article about it and make him famous. Mitchell tells him he no longer has a newspaper job. Then acquaintance Charles A. Leach  tells Mitchell that he had always dreamed of going into journalism. Leach makes a startling proposition: that they become partners and launch a new newspaper. Leach has a printing press, vacant offices and enough money to get started. Mitchell accepts, hires his friends on the spot, including aged but veteran reporter Josiah Davenport  and eager youngster Rusty. He decides to name the newspaper The Globe. When a policeman comes looking for Brodie, Mitchell drags the hiding fugitive out from behind the bar. Now Mitchell has the front page story for the first issue. Charity Hackett , the young, ruthless publisher of The Star, at first dismisses her new rival, but soon becomes concerned. Mitchell has many revolutionary ideas. Despite The Globe{{'}}s precarious finances , it instantly becomes very popular for the subjects it fearlessly tackles. When she visits its offices, she encounters Ottmar Mergenthaler, who is busy inventing the Linotype machine to automate the slow, laborious process of setting type by hand. She tries, but fails to recruit Mergenthaler for The Star. Eventually, Hackett visits Mitchell, working late at the office, and proposes a merger. Mitchell takes her in his arms and kisses her, but rejects her offer. She orders the second in command at her publication to cut off supplies of ink and paper to The Globe. He goes further than she had intended. Men are beaten up, and Rusty is run over by a heavy wagon. Mitchell confronts Hackett and tells her that Rusty may have to have his legs amputated. He does not believe her when she claims she did not mean for things to go this far, and that she has fired the man responsible. When Mitchell learns that France's gift of the Statue of Liberty has not been erected because of lack of funds to build a pedestal for it, he launches a public campaign to raise the money, promising to print the names of all the donors. However, he later discovers that conmen are collecting money in The Globe{{'}}s name. The government steps in and orders him to return all the funds. Mitchell finds out that the fraud was concocted by The Star and writes a scathing article. However, before it can be published, a bomb is throw into the office, destroying the printing press. Devastated by the loss of everything he has built, Mitchell drinks himself to sleep. The next morning, he is puzzled to find his story being read by everyone. His men had worked late into the night, using the facilities provided by Hackett, to print the day's edition. Hackett tells him that she is killing The Star so that The Globe can flourish.CastProduction notesOctober 2009}} Lana Turner{{Citation needed|dateParish>{{citation}} were both considered for the part of Maggie before the role went to Taylor. Production began on March 12, 1958, and by March 19, Taylor had contracted a virus which kept her off the shoot. On March 21, she canceled plans to fly with her husband Mike Todd to New York, where he was to be honored the following day by the New York Friars' Club. The plane crashed, and all passengers were killed. Beset with grief, Taylor remained off the film until April 14, 1958, at which time she returned to the set in a much thinner and weaker condition.Parish, p. 329 {{Infobox film}} Despite this, the film was highly acclaimed and though it did not win any Academy Awards, it received several nominations including Best Picture, Best Actor , Best Actress , and Best Director . The film also received nominations for Best Cinematography, Color , and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium. Burl Ives was nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor that year, and won, but it was for his role in the epic Western The Big Country. Cat may have been too controversial for the Academy voters; the film won no Oscars, and the Best Picture award went to Gigi that year.In February 1945, the demoralized Imperial Japanese Army on Leyte is in desperate straits, cut off from support and supplies by the Allies, who are in the process of liberating the Philippine island. Private Tamura has tuberculosis and is seen as a useless burden to his company, even though it has been reduced to little more than a platoon in strength. He is ordered to commit suicide if he is unable to get admitted to a field hospital. A sympathetic soldier gives him several yams from the unit's meager supplies. On his way, he notices a mysterious fire on the ground. When he reaches the crowded hospital, he is judged not sick enough to treat. He joins a group of other rejectees outside. When the Allies start shelling the area, the medical staff abandon the patients and run away. The hospital is hit and destroyed. Tamura flees as well; looking back, he sees many bodies strewn around, but chooses not to go to the aid of any who may still be alive. Traveling alone, Tamura discovers a deserted village on the coast, where he finds a pile of dead Japanese soldiers. As he searches for food, a young Filipino couple arrive by canoe and run to a hut to retrieve a cache of precious salt hidden under a floorboard. When Tamura enters the hut, the girl begins to scream. Tamura tries to placate them by lowering his rifle, but she continues to scream. He shoots her. The young man escapes in his canoe. Tamura takes the salt and leaves. He next encounters three Japanese soldiers. They sight another fire. Tamura believes they are signal fires, but one of the others tells him that farmers are just burning corn husks. The squad leader mentions that the army has been ordered to go to Palompon for evacuation to Cebu. Tamura asks to accompany them. When one soldier notices Tamura's full bag, he shares his salt. They soon join a stream of ragged, malnourished, dejected soldiers heading to Palompon. Among them are Nagamatsu and Yasuda, familiar men from Tamura's company. Yasuda, wounded in the leg, has Nagamatsu try to trade tobacco for food. When the soldiers come to a heavily traveled road, they decide to wait for night before trying to cross, but they are ambushed by the waiting Americans. The few survivors flee back the way they came. Later, an American jeep arrives. Tamura prepares to surrender, but gives up the idea when he sees a Filipino woman gun down a fellow Japanese trying the same thing. The accompanying American soldiers are too late to stop her. Tamura wanders aimlessly. He comes across a crazed, exhausted soldier, who tells Tamura he can eat his body after he is dead. Tamura hastily departs. He comes across Nagamatsu and Yasuda again. They claim to have survived on "monkey meat" and are living in the forest. Later, Nagamatsu goes out to hunt more "monkeys". When Tamura mentions he has a grenade , Yasuda steals it. Tamura leaves to find Nagamatsu. When Nagamatsu almost shoots him, he realizes what monkey meat really is. Nagamatsu tells Tamura they would be dead if they did not resort to cannibalism. They head back to camp, but when Tamura mentions that Yasuda has his grenade, Nagamatsu says they will have to kill him, or he will do them in with the grenade. However, Yasuda is too wary. A standoff ensues. Nagamatsu stakes out the only source of water in the area. After several days, Yasuda tries to bargain, to no avail. Finally, he makes his way to the water and is shot. Nagamatsu begins butchering the body for meat. Tamura becomes disgusted and shoots Nagamatsu. Tamura then heads towards the "fires on the plains", desperate to find someone "who is leading a normal life." He slowly walks forward, even as the Filipinos shoot at him. The film ends with Tamura collapsing on the ground, his fate ambiguous.The movie starts with Neely, a shrimping boat's skipper, calling in to shore with news of a good catch. Subsequent conversations with Barb, his mate/deckhand and Cap, his boss on shore, reveals that this boat  has snagged and torn several nets recently due to something on the sea floor, despite the charts showing nothing in the area. Cap and Neely decide that despite the financial strain of losing their expensive nets, they can afford one more trip to investigate the source of the snags. Neely and Barb go to Duffy's restaurant where they meet Mom, Ryan and Baby. Neely asks to speak privately with Ryan and requests that Mom sing his favorite song. It is Baby's birthday, but she agrees to leave the table while Mom steps up to the stage and performs the film's title song, Carib Gold. During the song, Barb and Neely talk to Ryan about diving to the sea bed to look for the cause of the torn nets. He agrees, and they make arrangements to set out the following morning. Barb's wife Dottie sees them off at the dock, and he promises her they will be back soon. When they reach the area, the boat's crew assists Ryan into his Atmospheric diving suit. Ryan goes over the side while crewmen operate the manual hand pump, and Barb and Neely operate the communications unit. On reaching the bottom, Ryan heads south and quickly discovers what appears to be the wreckage of a boat. He brings up a coin and discusses his discovery of sunken treasure with Neely and Barb, mentioning that there is bullion as well. The three speculate that they have discovered a "Spanish plate ship." Back at Duffy's, the three discuss salvaging the ship with Cap and Mom. Ryan points out that a larger and trustworthy crew will be required in order to salvage the wreck. Barb goes home and tells Dottie about the find, shows her the coin and tells her that they need to "chip in," in order to help finance the salvage of the wreck. Dottie begins to cry, disbelieving that the coin is real and thinking that this will deprive her of needed surgery. Barb introduces a new diver, Lechock, to the rest of the salvage crew, who seem wary of the newcomer but take him on and agree to set out the next morning. Once underway, Lechock quickly shows himself to be a belligerent shipmate, threatening to toss another member of the crew overboard. At the site, Ryan once again suits up and returns to the wreck, while filling a basket the crew later sent down for retrieval of the treasure. Lechock appears mesmerized by the bullion when it comes aboard, while Ryan remains working underwater. Neely calls Cap with their status, who promises to bring out supplies so that they can remain at the site and work. As Cap's supply boat approaches later, Lechock is suiting up for a dive. Neely explains to Cap that Lechock has alienated the entire crew and seems to have "a chip on his shoulder." After sundown, Lechock is seen putting a pistol into his waistband and slipping into the cabin where the gold is kept in an apparently unlocked safe. While taking two of the gold bars, he accidentally wakes Barb, pistol-whips him to death and then escapes with the bullion by stealing Cap's boat. Ryan, Neely and Cap see Lechock leave with the boat, then investigate the cabin where they discover the stolen bullion and Barb's body. Neely calls the Key West harbor police to report the murder, then orders Willie to drop a marker buoy so they can return to port. Later, Willie is seen on deck with a voodoo doll. After daybreak, a Coast Guard boat pursues Lechock at high speed but loses him in shallow water near the coast, while the Capt. Geech puts into port. Lechock then abandons the boat, buries the gold bars on the beach, and runs into the woods. The police are waiting at the dock as the Capt. Geech comes in, and once the boat is tied, Ryan and Willie leave while the police talk to Cap and Neely. Ryan picks up Mom in a taxi and explains what has happened while they are on the way to tell Dottie that her husband has been killed. Ryan vows to find Lechock as Dottie breaks down and cries in Mom's arms. The next scene is of a voodoo ritual, opening to a view of Willie's voodoo doll  hung on a board painted with a spider's web. A voodoo dancer, drummers and white-clad women all participate while Willie shakes a maraca during the ritual. With his chicken-feather whisk, the dancer selects a woman who joins him in the dance, soon to be followed by the entire group as the dancer brushes the doll with the whisk. As Ryan searches for Lechock, the fugitive evades the police by slipping through a door. The door happens to lead into the "Key Oasis" bar, where Ryan is having a drink. When Ryan notices Lechock, he immediately attacks while the other patrons watch. The fight results in Lechock knocked out on the floor as Ryan leaves the bar. He returns to Duffy's, where Mom urges him to stay and let law enforcement handle the case. Ryan agrees, then Willie bursts in to tell them that Lechock has been arrested for Barb's murder.As newspaper editor Jim Austin prepares his testimony before the Committee, the story flashes back to the events which led to his testifying. Mob boss Murray Sirak has the entire police force of Austin's small town under his thumb. Sirak takes his orders from an unseen "untouchable" Mister Big. Austin is driven to investigate corruption after Clyde Nelson, a local private detective, working on an apparently harmless divorce case, discovers the existence of a big-time gambling syndicate operating with the consent of the city fathers, the local police, and the respectable elements of the community. Nelson is killed in a hit-and-run which appears to be an accident. Austin thinks otherwise because he is harassed by police when he looks into the PI's death.The film follows the passengers and crew on an airline flight from Hawaii to California that develops engine problems at its mid-way point. While the captain expects a ditching, the first officer convinces him to try to make the airport. The crew eventually nurses the damaged airliner to a safe landing where an inspection reveals that it landed with virtually dry tanks.Private Mizushima , a Japanese soldier, becomes the harp  player of Captain Inōye's  group, composed of soldiers who fight and sing to raise morale in World War II Burma Campaign. When they are offered shelter in a village, they eventually realize they are being watched by British soldiers. They successfully retrieve their ammunition, then see the advancing force. Instead of firing at them, though, the enemy soldiers begin singing. They learn that the Japanese surrender has occurred and they surrender. At a camp, a British captain asks Mizushima to talk down a group of soldiers who are still fighting on the mountain. He agrees to do so and is told by the British that he has 30 minutes to tell them to surrender. At the mountain he is almost shot down before they realize he is Japanese. He climbs up and asks to speak to whoever is in command. He informs their commander that the war has ended and they should surrender. The commander says he shall talk to the other soldiers, and they come out minutes later stating that unanimously they decided to fight to the end. Mizushima begs for them to surrender but they do nothing. He decides to ask for more time from the British. When he creates a surrender flag, the others take it the wrong way and believe he's surrendering for them. They beat him unconscious and leave him on the floor. The cave is bombarded, and he becomes the only survivor. He steals a monk's robe so that he will not be spotted as a soldier, and wanders around looking for the camp his group was in. Finding many unburied corpses of dead Japanese soldiers, he decides to bury them. Meanwhile, Captain Inōye and his men are wondering what happened, and cling to a belief that he is still out there. Eventually they buy a parrot  and tell a villager to take it to a monk they suspect is Mizushima in hiding. But the parrot is returned with a long letter replying that he refuses to go back to Japan with them, because he must continue burying the dead while studying as a monk, and promoting the peaceful nature of mankind. Years later however, he allows for the prospect of returning to Japan.Brilliant but irresponsible scientist Tony Nelson  develops an amplifier that allows any object to achieve a 4th dimensional  state. While in this state that object can pass freely through any other object. Unemployed after burning down a college lab, Tony seeks out his brother Scott ([[Robert Lansing , a researcher working on a material called cargonite that is so dense as to be impenetrable, with his experiment. Scott is underpaid and underappreciated at his job but does not have the drive to challenge his employer for greater recognition. When his girlfriend  falls for Tony, an enraged Scott steals Tony's experiment and starts playing with it, eventually sending himself into a 4D state. When demonstrating this to Tony, Scott does not turn on the amplifier power yet successfully passes his hand through a block of steel, meaning Scott can now enter the 4D state via his own will. While in the 4D state, Scott can pass through any solid object. The downside is that while in the 4D state Scott uses up his life at an accelerated rate. To survive he must replenish his lifeforce by taking it from others by passing through them. Scott starts using his newfound power to acquire all the things he felt he was denied: money, recognition, power, and the love of his girlfriend. Tony realizes from the nature of the crimes that the only possible explanation is that Scott is on a rampage with his 4D abilities, and somehow Tony has to find a way to stop a man who is practically unstoppable. The girlfriend shoots Scott after they kiss, where he has a nervous breakdown and passes through a wall with various cylindrical storage covers on it, ending with his hand passing in and out. The superimposed end title reads "The End...?"The American submarine Grayfish, under Lieutenant Commander/Commander Barney Doyle , searches for the Shinaru, one of the Japanese aircraft carriers that led the attack on Pearl Harbor. Doyle receives word that the target has an escort, including a transport ship carrying his wife and child, who were captured in the Philippines. As luck would have it, Grayfish finds the ships. Doyle's second in command, Lieutenant/Lieutenant Commander Archer Sloan  tries to talk his friend out of risking the lives of his family, but Doyle proceeds with the attack. To their horror, their torpedoes sink the transport. The Japanese make no attempt to rescue the survivors, hoping to lure the sub to the surface. Doyle is forced to leave the prisoners to drown. Doyle manages to follow the Shinaru into Tokyo Bay itself and tries again to sink his nemesis, but fails and barely escapes from Japanese destroyers. The Grayfish then returns to Pearl Harbor. There, Vice Admiral Setton  wants to promote Doyle to a desk job, but the anguished man begs for and gets one last chance at the Shinaru. Sloan turns down a command of his own to accompany him. Doyle is assigned a quiet, out-of-the-way patrol area off the Alaskan coast, but fortune is with him. He encounters the Shinaru once more. The sub sustains some damage from a collision and has to launch its attack using sonar alone. After the torpedoes are away, the sub is sent to the bottom by the Shinaru's escort. Fortunately, the crewmen are able to exit and use Momsen lungs to reach the surface, where they are rescued by a sister sub. When they are brought aboard, they are told that they have sunk the Shinaru.In the faraway Arctic Circle, an atomic bomb test is done, codenamed "Operation Bravo". But then, Professor Tom Nesbitt afraid what will happen later, and his fear comes true. The nuclear explosion awakened a 35-feet tall giant diapsid known as the "Rhedosaurus" who later escapes to the sea. Then, he attacks a ship, then surfacing ashore in Maine and destroyed a high lighthouse at night. Then, he surfaces in Manhattan, and wrecks buildings. The monster also breathes fire from his maw. The monster returns to the sea and resurfaces in River Thames, then wreaks havoc again. Missiles had no effect, and Carl Nesbitt, Professor Nesbitt's brother, was killed. Then, the beast escaped to the sea. Then, in New York, the monster attacked again. The monster are annoyed by military and destroyed them all, then swims away. The military detected him moving to Coney Island, so the S.W.A.T uses submarine. The Radar Man detects the monster and they attack. Dr. Thurgood Elson suggests that the monster should be killed by anti-radiation, so Corporal Jason Stone, the sharpshooter member of the army was hired by Colonel Jack Evans and Captain Phil Jackson. They set an isotope missile who will neutralize the beast's nuclear power. Fighter jets are sent and sped up to Coney Island, and they battled. Some were shot down by the beast's nuclear fire breath but Corporal Stone already get his isotope injector bullet, and he sets up. He aims the Beast's neck, and shoots the isotope bullet to the Beast, neutralizing the radiation in the monster's body! The Beast roared a terrible cry of pain and fell to the ground, as the amusement park of Coney Island burned from the result of the battle.Retired gunslinger and former Confederate soldier Steve Sinclair ([[Robert Taylor  is living as a rancher in a small western community. He collaborates with the main landowner Dennis Deneen , from whom he rents the ranch, to preserve communal stability. His quiet life is disrupted by the appearance of his emotionally unstable younger brother Tony  and Tony's beautiful girlfriend Joan . An old rival of Steve's, gunman Larry Venables , also arrives on the scene looking for Steve. Tony confronts Venables and kills him in a shootout. His success goes to his head and he gets drunk, ignoring Joan. A new problem arises with the arrival of Clay Ellison , a farmer who plans to fence off a strip of land currently grazed by cattle. Tony attempts to drive off Ellison, but Steve intervenes. Ellison appeals to Deneen, who agrees to defend Ellison's legal rights to the land. However Tony murders Ellison when he attempts to buy provisions in town. Deneen breaks his ties with the Sinclairs. Steve intends to leave the ranch, but Tony tries to take over. Steve drives him off, but Tony confronts Deneen and attempts to kill him. Both are wounded in the gunfight. Deneen's men recruit Steve to find Tony, who has fled into the hills. When Steve finds him, Tony shoots himself. Steve tells the wounded Deneen, who persuades him to stay on at the ranch with Joan.The Black Widows, a teenage girl gang, find one of their number killed; they suspect Barbara, sometime girlfriend of the leader of rival gang The Vandals. As the gangs prepare for a rumble, we glimpse the members' home lives, exaggerating every type of Family dysfunction; but that of their "average American" quarry is no better. Full of shadowy urban night scenes.Jeff Travis , a former spy for Quantrill's Raiders, rides to Arizona to start a new life. Finding that his reputation has preceded him, crooked Jules Mourret  hires him to monitor a series of gold shipments, in preparation for a major robbery. Travis falls in love with Shelby Conroy , daughter of freight-line operator Jason Conroy , and decides to turn honest.Police Inspector Dillon  reluctantly sets out to see an old friend, Dan O'Flaherty ([[Noel Purcell . Along the way, he encounters Mickey J. , a poitín maker who, fortunately for him, is not Dillon's target today. The inspector has the unfortunate duty of serving a warrant on O'Flaherty for striking Phelim O'Feeney ([[John Cowley  on the head. O'Flaherty refuses to pay the fine, as he feels he has done nothing wrong, nor will he allow O'Feeney to pay it for him. Instead, he heads off to prison.  A train pulls up to the Dunfaill station, where Paddy Morrisey  announces there will be "a minute's wait". The passengers and crew crowd into the bar for refreshments, served by Pegeen Mallory . Later, Paddy finally proposes to his longtime girlfriend Pegeen. Mrs. Falsey  chats with her old friend Barney Domigan , while her niece Mary Ann MacMahon  becomes acquainted with his son Christy . Domigan is on his way to arrange a marriage between Christy and a young woman with a substantial dowry. Mrs. Falsey persuades him to change his mind by informing him that the U.S. Army has awarded Mary Ann $10,000 for her father's death in battle. The young couple, unaware of this development, insist they will only marry each other. Meanwhile, the train is repeatedly delayed, much to the befuddlement of an older English couple . They are first displaced from their first class compartment to make way for a prize-winning goat. Then, they have to share their new compartment with lobsters intended for the bishop's golden jubilee. When they finally get off for some tea, they are left behind when the train finally departs.  Sean Curran  awaits his execution by the British during the "Black and Tan War". This is very unpopular with the Irish public who consider him a hero. The British warden  allows two "nuns" , one of them his grieving "sister", to visit him; the false sister  swaps clothes and places with him. Unsuspecting Police Sergeant Michael O'Hara  helps the pair into a waiting carriage. He notices that one is wearing high heels, but thinks little of it. The city is immediately sealed off as the manhunt for the fugitive begins. O'Hara is assigned to watch a section of the waterfront and daydreams of what he could do with the £500 bounty. Already conflicted by divided loyalties, he is visited by his overtly nationalistic wife . Then, Curran shows up disguised as itinerant ballad singer Jimmy Walsh. O'Hara is suspicious and has him sing; Curran chooses the patriotic "The Rising of the Moon". Despite his unconvincing rendition, he manages to slip away on a boat sent for him while O'Hara bickers with his wife. When the policeman sees Curran getting away, he starts to raise the alarm, then reconsiders and starts singing "The Rising of the Moon" himself.Lt. Kenneth Braden, a newly trained Navy "frogman", is unexpectedly ordered to report to duty, without being able to notify Sally Johnson, his new girlfriend in whom he has taken a serious interest. Reporting for duty, he is told that she is an officer of Naval Intelligence, and was responsible for a recent confirmation of his character and fitness for duty. Commander Stevenson  is ordered to bring Braden to Kosrae so that he can attempt to capture of the current Japanese communication cypher tables from the radio station there. The skipper originally told Braden that he would have to swim a considerable distance, but upon arrival decides to enter and remain in Lelu Harbor while Braden scales the mountain.U.S. Marine Master Gunnery Sergeant James O'Hearn  is being tried at the San Diego Marine base for desertion, theft, scandalous conduct and destruction of property in time of war. He refuses to testify or plead guilty or not guilty to the charges. The film alternates between flashbacks and the courtroom, as witnesses give their testimony. Showgirl Ginger Martin  takes the stand against his protest. Ginger tells how she, broke and stranded, met O'Hearn and his friend, Marine Private First Class Davy White , in Shanghai two weeks before the attack on Pearl Harbor. With war looming, their Marine regiment is ordered home. White slips away to propose marriage so that Ginger can be evacuated from China  as his wife. O'Hearn tracks him down at the nightclub where Ginger works. When the club's manager objects to Ginger quitting, a brawl breaks out. The trio escape aboard a small motor boat. When the two men start fighting, Ginger tries to help White and accidentally disables the boat. They drift out to sea and are picked up by a passing junk. Once again, the Marines quarrel over White's future. This time, they accidentally set the sail on fire. They have to chop down the mast in order to save the ship. As a result, they are put ashore on the Vichy French island of Namou. To avoid being jailed, the Marines persuade pro-Axis Governor Pierre Marchand  that they are deserters. They are quartered in a hotel/brothel run by Lillie Duval and her three "nieces". O'Hearn is delighted to make their acquaintance, to Ginger's annoyance. When a supposedly Dutch yacht calls at the island, O'Hearn tries to book passage, but the captain, Van Dorck , refuses to take the risk. O'Hearn discovers that Van Dorck is actually a Nazi setting up radar stations on the islands around Guadalcanal, and plots to seize the ship with the help of expatriates like ex-U.S. Navy sailor "Jimmylegs" Donovan  and fugitive bank embezzler Smith, and Free French liberated from the prison. White refuses to join and says he is deserting and intends to remain on the island with Ginger. This causes Ginger to have second thoughts about their relationship. O'Hearn forces White on board the yacht at gunpoint. Back in the courtroom, O'Hearn breaks his silence in order to exonerate White. When Van Dorck and a search party find him, O'Hearn manages to kill them all. He and his men then overthrow the governor and load the island's armory on the ship, intending to join the fighting at Guadalcanal. Ginger slips aboard as a patriotic stowaway. They stumble upon a group of Japanese landing craft escorted by a destroyer. O'Hearn engages the Japanese in a fierce battle. When the destroyer tries to ram the yacht, White jumps aboard and climbs its smokestack. He throws in explosives, blowing up the destroyer at the cost of his own life. Only O'Hearn and Ginger survive; the rest of the crew die heroically. The court martial exonerates O'Hearn and recommends White for a posthumous Congressional Medal of Honor. O'Hearn and Ginger then admit they love each other.Edwin "Ned" Booth is the son of the noted thespian Junius Brutus Booth and the nephew of another actor, John Wilkes Booth. In 1848, as a young man, he assists Junius, who is often drunk and seems at times on the brink of madness. Several years go by. A theater owner, Dave Prescott, eagerly anticipates a Junius performance in San Francisco, but the actor is again unable to perform. Ned, who has memorized his uncle's lines, substitutes in a performance of Richard III at a mining camp, where the miners, disappointed at first, are ultimately pleased by what they see. Prescott, however, breaks the news later that Junius is dead. Ned returns east, where John Wilkes Booth is on stage doing Taming of the Shrew nightly at Ford's theater in Washington D.C., somewhat envious of his nephew's growing stature as an actor. Ned travels to New Orleans, where he meets and marries a member of a theatrical company, Mary Devlin. The war breaks out and John is said to be working steadfastly for the Confederacy's cause. He declines an offer from Ned to go to London together for a production of Hamlet, and when a pregnant Mary falls ill, Ned begins drinking heavily and missing performances. Mary's death turns her husband morose. Then comes the terrible news one night that John Wilkes Booth has assassinated President Abraham Lincoln by gunshot at Ford's theater. Ned elects to proceed with a scheduled stage performance in New York, where members of the audience shout insults and throw objects at him. He continues with his performance, nonetheless, until all grow quiet at the sound of his voice.After the surrender of Singapore in World War II, a unit of British soldiers is marched to a Japanese prison camp in western Thailand. They are paraded before the camp commandant, Colonel Saito , who informs them of his rules; all prisoners, regardless of rank, are to work on the construction of a bridge over the River Kwai to carry a new railway line to invade Burma. Their commander, Lt. Colonel Nicholson , reminds Saito that the Geneva Conventions exempt officers from manual labour. At the following morning’s parade, Nicholson orders his officers to remain behind when the enlisted men head off to work. Saito slaps him hard across the face with his copy of the conventions and threatens to have them shot, but Nicholson refuses to back down. When Major Clipton , the British medical officer, intervenes, Saito leaves the officers standing all day in the intense tropical heat. That evening, the officers are placed in a punishment hut, while Nicholson is locked in ‘the oven’, an iron box, without food or water. Clipton attempts to secure Nicholson's release, but Nicholson refuses to compromise. Meanwhile, the prisoners are working as little as possible and sabotaging whatever they can. Saito is concerned because, should he fail to meet his deadline, he would be obliged to commit seppuku . Using the anniversary of Japan's great victory in the 1905 Russo-Japanese War as an excuse to save face, he gives in, and Nicholson and his officers are released. Nicholson conducts an inspection and is shocked by what he finds. Against the protests of some of his officers, he orders Captain Reeves  and Major Hughes ([[John Boxer  to design and build a proper bridge, despite its military value to the Japanese, for the sake of his men's morale. The Japanese engineers had chosen a poor site, so the original construction is abandoned and a new bridge is begun 400 yards downstream. Meanwhile, three prisoners attempt to escape. Two are shot dead, but United States Navy Commander Shears , gets away, although badly wounded. After many days, Shears eventually stumbles into a village, whose people help him to escape by a boat. Shears is enjoying his recovery at the Mount Lavinia Hospital at Ceylon , when Major Warden  asks him to volunteer for a commando mission to destroy the bridge. Shears is horrified at the idea and reveals that he is not an officer at all. He was an enlisted man on the cruiser USS Houston. He switched uniforms with the dead Commander Shears after the sinking of their ship to get better treatment. Warden already knows this and has had "Shears" reassigned to British duty. Faced with the prospect of being charged with impersonating an officer, Shears has no choice but to volunteer; Warden gives him the "simulated rank of major". Meanwhile, Nicholson drives his men, even volunteering to have them work harder to complete the bridge on time. For Nicholson, its completion will exemplify the ingenuity and hard work of the British Army for generations. When he asks that their Japanese counterparts join in as well, a resigned Saito replies that he has already given the order. The commandos parachute in, although one is killed in a bad landing. The other three—Warden, Shears, and Canadian Lieutenant Joyce —reach the river with the assistance of Siamese women porters and their village chief, Khun Yai. Warden is wounded in an encounter with a Japanese patrol, and has to be carried on a litter. The trio reach the bridge in time and plant explosives underwater under cover of darkness. A train carrying soldiers and important dignitaries is scheduled to be the first to use the bridge the following afternoon, so Warden plans to destroy both at the same time. However, by dawn the water level has dropped, exposing the wire connecting the explosives to the detonator. Making a final inspection, Nicholson spots the wire and brings it to Saito's attention to the consternation of the commando team. As the train is heard approaching, Nicholson, with Saito in tow, hurries down to the riverbank to investigate. Joyce, hiding with the detonator, breaks cover and stabs Saito to death; Nicholson yells for help, while attempting to stop Joyce from reaching the detonator. Shears and Warden yell for Joyce to kill Nicholson, but Joyce is shot by Japanese fire. Shears then swims across the river to fulfill the mission, but is shot just before he reaches Nicholson. Recognising the dying Shears, Nicholson exclaims: "What have I done?" Warden fires his mortar, mortally wounding Nicholson. The dazed colonel stumbles towards the detonator and falls on it as he dies, just in time to blow up the bridge and send the train hurtling into the river below. As he witnesses the carnage, Clipton shakes his head uttering: "Madness!... Madness!"Following a routine nuclear experiment, the ship Ryujin Maru II disappeared while in the South Pacific. Days layer, another ship, bound for Izu, stumbles upon the craft adrift at sea. Six members of the crew decide to board the ship to see why there is no one on deck. To their surprise, they find no one on board at all, only piles of disheveled clothes. In the captain's room, they find an unfinished log, and begin to suspect that the crew must have been killed somehow. While leaving the captain's room, Dai, one of the crew members who boarded the ship, is killed by a mysterious blue liquid that climbs up his leg and melts his body, leaving only his clothes behind. After killing Dai, the liquid takes the shape of a man and is joined by another one from the window. The monsters rush at one of the terrified men and quickly claim another victim. Next, Sou is killed on the dock while trying to escape. Only two of the original six make it off the ship alive, and they spot Liquid People  walking around the deck as they disembark away from the ship. Much later, in the outskirts of Tokyo, a drug smuggler by the name of Misaki is mysteriously killed while trying to get away, leaving only his clothes behind. The police investigate by going to his apartment, only to find his girlfriend, Arai Chikako, who says he hasn't returned for five days. Arai works at the cabaret, so the police decide to go there for further investigation. After her performance, the police go back to Arai's room and find a man backstage with her. After finding a note to Arai in his pocket, they bring him in as a suspect. He is identified as Masada, an assistant professor at Jyoto University. Masada explains that he wanted to talk to Arai about Misaki, and explains his theory that Misaki's disappearance is the result of his physical form melting away, possibly from an extreme amount of radiation in the rain that night. The police don't buy a word, and set up patrols at Misaki's apartment where Arai is living. That night, a man by the name of Nishiyama sneaks into the apartment and threatens Arai, asking her where Misaki is; however, he gets no answer as Arai explains that she simply doesn't know. After thinking it over Nishiyama states that he will spare her life for tonight, and leaves out the window. Not long after, Arai hears gun shots that are followed by a scream. Arai then opens the door to the apartment and faints in the hall. The police go the room to investigate, and look out the window only to see clothes and a gun lying out on the street. In the morning, the police take Arai in for questioning, but get no new information from her. Masada arrives at the police station to try and prove his theory to them once more, this time he invites them to go back to the hospital with him where he announces that he has collected witnesses that will prove his theory. Once there, the witnesses tell their story of the six members of their ship that boarded the ship, and how four of the men lost their lives that night. Masada next shows him the effect of the Ash of Death, the type of nuclear explosion that the Ryujin Maru II was exposed to, on a bullfrog. The bullfrog melts almost immediately, all of its cells are transformed into a liquid. The police still don't buy that the Misaki disappearance is related to this, though. The police decide to question Arai again, this time showing her a group of pictures, asking her to identify who came into the apartment the night before. She points out Nishiyama out of the pictures, a member of the Hanada gang. Meanwhile, Masada finds a lifesaver on the docks that belongs to the Ryujin Maru II, and he starts to suspect that the liquid might have attached itself to it and traveled to Tokyo. Masada takes the lifesaver back to the University, where he and his colleagues find out that the lifesaver is indeed radioactive. Arai then visits the institute to find Masada and tells him about the murders, and how a liquid killed the victims. Professor Maki is intrigued by the girl's story, and asks that Masada goes to the police station and tell them their findings. Masada complies, but is still laughed at down at the station. The police become notably annoyed with his persistence in pursuing this theory, and, to stay in their favor, Masada divulges that he believes that waiter at the cabaret maybe in on the drug smuggling. That night, the police visit the cabaret again, disguised as customers. They watch, and mark down, which tables the waiter stops at for long periods of time. Every time someone from one of these marked tables starts to leave, they arrest them as a suspect. Eventually the guests of the club begin to catch on, and one of them fires his gun right before they cuff him. The waiter hears this and warns Uchida, an intricate figure in the drug smuggling ring, and they retreat to one of the dancer's rooms. Once inside, they try and escape through the window, but are cut off by an H-Man. The waiter, along with one of the dancers is killed. The H-Man next tries to get Arai, but is distracted by one of the policemen, who starts firing at it. The H-Man liquefies the officer, and then escapes through the window. During the commotion, Uchida takes off his clothes, to fake his death, and escapes. The police now accept Masada's theory about the Ash of Death. It's also confirmed that the liquid got to Tokyo by attaching itself to the lifesaver. Maki explains to the authorities that the only way to kill the creatures is by electrocution or incineration. Then Masada, after studying Uchida's clothes, explains to the police that weren't radioactive, meaning he must have escaped. Shortly after this discovery, Arai is kidnapped by Uchida. Meanwhile, the authorities plan to use their high voltage discharge unit to stop the H-men's infiltration upstream. Next they plan to evacuate and fill the surrounding bodies of water with gasoline, to incinerate the ones already in the city. Before the authorities can put this plan into operation, Uchida leads Arai into the sewers to retrieve the stash of drugs that the waiter had been hiding down there. In the meantime, Masada finds a piece of Arai's clothing floating in the water near one of the sewage valves, and rushes in the sewers looking for her. The police catch wind of Masada's actions and ask permission to go down with one of the teams preparing the "gasoline operation." A rescue team is then prepared, and goes in after them. Uchida is killed shortly after by one of the liquid people, and Arai begins to flee. Masada finds her, and manages to help her get away as the rescue team discovers them both, with the H-men in hot pursuit. The water is then ignited, burning alive all of the monsters and putting an end to their reign of terror.In the opening scene set in Southern California, while Virginia Wilson  is taking an outside beach shower, an escaped madman from the sanitarium shows up. He stabs her dog, Rusty [Devil was the name of her second dog], attacks her and is then shot to death by her stepbrother, Charlie, with a rifle. After the attack, Virginia is committed to a sanitarium. The psychiatrist falls in love with her. He fakes her death, and they go on the lam. Virginia ends up dancing at the El Madhouse night club run by Gypsy Rose Lee. Lee performs "Put the Blame on Mame," the classic noir theme from the film Gilda. All the while Virginia is being stalked by a serial killer.A group of flight cadets arrive at RAF Cranwell to begin a three-year training course to become RAF pilots. Amongst the group is Tony Winchester  who makes a memorable entrance by landing his civilian Taylorcraft Auster aircraft with his girlfriend  aboard on the RAF runway just ahead of a de Havilland Vampire jet trainer piloted by Wing Commander Rudge . During the Second World War, Winchester's father had been Rudge's commanding officer and lost his life protecting Rudge who had disobeyed orders. Winchester is a difficult individual who harbours animosity towards Rudge over his father's wartime death. Another member of the aspiring pilots is the scientific minded Roger Endicott  who is also determined to create a working flying saucer. Endicott's flying radio controlled model develops difficulties as it literally crashes a Bishop's ([[Ian Fleming  tea party. Winchester doesn't learn the meaning of team work, and nearly loses his life when he disobeys orders, flying into a storm. Rudge demands his resignation but reconsiders, remembering his own rash behaviour had been the cause of the death of Winchester's father. Rudge ultimately selects Winchester to fly in a precision aerial team training for the Farnborough Airshow. When the squadron is temporarily posted to a forward base in West Germany, Winchester flies close to hostile territory near the East German border, and is nearly shot down by anti-aircraft guns firing across the border. The wounded airman and his stricken aircraft are rescued by Rudge, who brings him back safely to a crash landing at his home base. Finally, Winchester is able to understand his true role in the RAF, and know that he is part of a team effort.An international drug-smuggling racket plants heroin on unsuspecting American tourists traveling in Asia, so that the dope can pass through customs undetected. Two psychopathic killers (Eli Wallach and [[Robert Keith  and their driver Richard Jaeckel then collect the contraband. In the film Warner Anderson reprises his role as Lieutenant Ben Guthrie from the TV series. However, Tom Tully's character, Inspector Matt Grebb, is replaced by Inspector Al Quine, played by Emile Meyer.Sach's head becomes hard and he feels no pain. As a result, Slip enters him into a wrestling match hoping to win $1,000. However, Sach's strength has disappeared from his head. Luckily they discover that it has traveled to his finger, and he wins the match. Slip decides to enter Sach into more matches, but a rival manager wants to take control. Slip resists the offer and Sach goes onto become world champion, with his power traveling to various parts of his body, including his elbow and toes. The rival manager prevents another wrestler from fighting Sach in a charity match so that his wrestler can go against him. The boys are then kidnapped in the hopes that they will reveal where Sach's power has traveled to. The escape and Sach enters the ring, not knowing where his power is. Slip discovers that it in on Sach's derriere, and uses that knowledge to win the match. In the end, when Slip is about to give Sach a new nickname based upon where his power now lies, Sach says to him, "You say it and we're out of pictures!"{{Expand section|date84736 Plot and production information, 'New Faces'] tcm.com, accessed August 11, 2009{{Expand section}} The story revolves around an attempt to keep alive the brain of millionaire megalomaniac W.H. Donovan after an otherwise fatal plane crash.Steve Boland  is a cynical minor criminal drafted into the US Army during World War II. He has an unspectacular military career with his criminal past getting him into trouble but he comes into his own when his criminal expertise gives him unparalleled opportunities during the American occupation of Germany. When Werwolf German infiltrators, saboteurs and assassins dressed in American uniform parachute behind the American lines, Boland's superiors neither believe nor trust him. Boland becomes a proficient one man army. He realises that everything happens for a reason.The bodies of farmer Fred Morgan and his housekeeper are found. Suspicion falls on hired hand George Braden, who owns a handgun that pregnant wife Ellen disposes of in a panic. Braden confesses under the interrogation of district attorney Jim Gillespie, possibly to spare his wife any more grief. Doug Madison is assigned the case in court, but doesn't believe in Braden's innocence until Ellen is seen diving into the lake, attempting to retrieve the gun. Madison's fiancee doesn't want him defending an unpopular client because it could harm his political future. A diver hired by Madison makes a play for Ellen, and when he is fired, he suggests Braden is romantically involved with the defendant's wife. After a conviction and death sentence for Braden, it comes to Madison's attention that an ex-con named Max Verne had worked for the dead man and made threats after being dismissed. Madison ends up in a race against time to prove Braden's innocence before he is executed.In 1864, Union army officer Capt. John Hayes is asked to take charge of the Overland stagecoach line, which makes eastbound gold shipments from California that aid the Union's war effort. Hayes travels to Overland headquarters in his hometown of Julesburg, Colorado. He meets a Union soldier, Rod Miller, who has lost an arm, and Miller's wife, Jeannie. Clay Putnam has quit his position with Overland and is now secretly working for the Confederacy. He has the support of a quick-draw bandit, Mace, and also has married Hayes' former love, Norma. Mace's men pick a fight with the one-armed Miller, calling him "half a man" and raising Jeannie's ire. Rod is distraught at his condition, unable to even cock a pistol now. Hayes decides to ask the Millers if they would agree to run the local Overland station out of their farm. Mace wants to kill Hayes, but is talked out of it by Putnam, who fears the Union's response. He orders Mace's men to destroy Overland's stations and property instead and steal its deliveries of gold. Putnam is jealous of Hayes, though, believing Norma is still interested in him. He decides to kill him, but mistakes Rod for Hayes and shoots the wrong man. Mace drives a stagecoach off a cliff, killing passengers, including women and children. A disgusted Norma decides to leave Putnam and warns she will see him hang if anything should happen to Hayes. A final confrontation in town results in townspeople offering Hayes their help. Putnam also comes looking for Mace, but is shot, whereupon Mace is killed by Hayes. Norma hopes to rekindle Hayes' love for her, but he appears more likely to have a future with Jeannie.In Saigon in 1952, as Vietnamese insurgents are delivering major strikes against the French colonial rulers, an innocent and enigmatic young American economist , who is working for an international aid organization, gets caught between the Communists and the colonialists as he tries to win the "hearts and minds" of the Vietnamese people. By promising marriage, he steals away a young Vietnamese woman  from an embittered and cynical English newspaperman , who retaliates by spreading the word that the American is actually covertly selling arms to the anti-Communists.Cliff Bonsell  lives a solitary life with his widowed father  in a hut on a decommissioned American army munitions stores depot in rural England. He has few friends, his main companion being the slightly older Willy Maxted , a quiet and introverted child who lives nearby with his grandmother . Cliff has developed a fascination for guns from films he has seen, regarding them as fun toys with which to play imaginitive games. Willy's main interest is his gramophone record collection. Cliff discovers an old army revolver left behind at the depot and is thrilled to have found a realistic toy to play with. He and Willy are out together when they come across unpopular local Ben Jones . Cliff decides to tease him by threatening him with the gun cowboy-style. When Jones refuses to play along, Cliff pulls the trigger, not realising that the gun is still loaded with live bullets. Jones collapses and the pair at first think he is play-acting, but soon realise that he is dead. They flee the scene in panic. Jones' body is discovered shortly afterwards by Bob Carter , who alerts the local police. However, when investigating detective Gray (Derek Farr} learns that Carter and Jones had recently been involved in a fight over the attentions of the flirtatious Hilda , Carter becomes the main suspect and is taken in for questioning. Cliff and Willy become increasingly tormented as they try to weigh up whether it is better to let an innocent man be punished, or to confess to what actually happened and face what they see as the fearful consequences. Meanwhile Grey gradually comes to realise that the case may not be as clear-cut as it first appeared.Dr. Cal Meacham, a noted scientist, receives an unusual substitute for electronic condensers that he ordered. Instead, he receives instructions and parts to build a complex communication device called an interocitor. Although neither Meacham nor his assistant Joe Wilson have heard of the device, they immediately begin construction. When finished, a mysterious man named Exeter appears on the interocitor's screen and tells Meacham he has passed the test. His ability to build the interocitor demonstrates that he is gifted enough to be part of Exeter's special research project. Intrigued, Meacham is picked up the next day at the airport by an unmanned, computer-controlled Douglas DC-3 aircraft with no windows. Landing in a remote area of Georgia, he finds an international group of top-flight scientists already present &ndash; including an old flame, Dr. Ruth Adams. Cal is almost immediately suspicious of the odd-looking group of men leading the project. Cal and Ruth flee with a third scientist, Steve Carlson , but their car is attacked and Carlson is killed. When they take off in a small plane, Cal and Ruth watch as the facility and all its inhabitants are incinerated, and their plane is drawn by a bright beam into a flying saucer. They learn that Exeter and his group are from the planet Metaluna, having come to Earth seeking uranium deposits as well as scientists to help defend their planet in a war against the Zagons. Exeter informs the Earthlings that he is taking them back to his world. Exeter and the Metalunans are attacked by Zagon star ships, carrying meteors, to be used to destroy them and Metaluna. The Metalunan saucer easily avoids each attack, dodging the oncoming meteors. They arrive to find the planet under bombardment and falling quickly to the enemy. Metalunan society is breaking down and there is little hope. Their leader, The Monitor, reveals that the Metalunans intend to relocate to Earth and insists that Meacham and Adams be subjected to a Thought Transference Chamber in order to subjugate their free will so they cannot object. Exeter believes this is immoral and misguided since it impedes their ability to help the Metalunans. Before they can enter the brain-reprogramming device, Exeter decides to help Cal and Ruth escape. Exeter is badly injured by a Mutant while the three escape from Metaluna just before it is destroyed. The Mutant also boards the craft, but dies as a result of pressure differences on the journey back to Earth. As they enter Earth's atmosphere, Exeter sends Cal and Ruth on their way in their small plane, but he himself is dying and the ship's energy is nearly depleted. With no other options, Exeter flies out to sea and crashes.An extraterrestrial flying saucer is tracked flying around the Earth until it lands on the President's Park Ellipse in Washington, D.C.. Klaatu  emerges, announcing that he has come from outer space on a goodwill mission. When he takes out and opens a small device, Klaatu is shot and wounded by a nervous soldier. In response, Gort, a large humanoid robot, emerges from the ship and begins disintegrating the weapons present with a ray coming from a visor-like structure on its head. Gort continues until Klaatu orders him to stop. Klaatu explains that the now destroyed object was a viewing device, a gift for the President. Klaatu is taken to an army hospital, where he is found to be physically human, but stuns the doctors with the quickness of his healing. Meanwhile the military attempts to enter Klaatu's ship, finding it impregnable. Gort stands by, mute and unmoving. Klaatu reveals to the President's secretary, Harley , that he bears a message so momentous and urgent that it must be revealed to all the world's leaders simultaneously. Harley tells him that it would be impossible to get all of the world leaders to agree to meet. Klaatu wants to get to know the ordinary people. Harley forbids it and leaves Klaatu locked up under guard. Klaatu escapes and lodges at a boarding house, assuming the alias "Mr. Carpenter," the name he finds on the cleaners tag on the suit he "borrowed." Among the residents are Helen Benson , a World War II widow, and her son Bobby ([[Billy Gray . At breakfast the next morning, during alarming radio reports, Klaatu takes in his fellow boarders' suspicions and speculations about the alien visit. While Helen and her boyfriend Tom Stephens  go on a day trip, Klaatu babysits Bobby. The boy takes Klaatu on a tour of the city, including a visit to his father's grave in Arlington National Cemetery, where Klaatu is dismayed to learn that most of those buried there were killed in wars. The two visit the heavily guarded spaceship and the Lincoln Memorial. Klaatu, impressed by the Gettysburg Address inscription, queries Bobby for the greatest person living in the world. Bobby suggests a leading American scientist, Professor Jacob Barnhardt ([[Sam Jaffe , who lives in Washington, D.C. Bobby takes Klaatu to Barnhardt's home, but the professor is absent. Klaatu enters and adds a key mathematical equation to an advanced problem on the professor's blackboard, and then leaves his contact information with the suspicious housekeeper who attempts to rub out the equation with an eraser although is told not to by Klaatu. Later, government agents escort Klaatu to see Barnhardt. Klaatu introduces himself and warns the professor that the people of the other planets have become concerned for their own safety after human beings developed atomic power. Klaatu declares that if his message goes unheeded, "Planet Earth will be eliminated." Barnhardt agrees to arrange a meeting of scientists at Klaatu's ship and suggests that Klaatu give a demonstration of his power. Klaatu returns to his spaceship the next evening to implement the idea, unaware that Bobby has followed him. Bobby tells the unbelieving Helen and Tom what has transpired, but not until Tom finds a diamond on the floor of Klaatu's room do they begin to accept his story. When Tom takes the diamond for appraisal, the jeweler informs him it is unlike any other on Earth. Klaatu finds Helen at her workplace. She leads him to an unoccupied elevator which mysteriously stops at noon, trapping them together. Klaatu admits he is responsible, tells Helen his true identity, and asks for her help. A montage sequence shows that Klaatu has neutralized all electric power everywhere around the planet except in situations that would compromise human safety, such as hospitals and airplanes. After the thirty-minute blackout ends, the manhunt for Klaatu intensifies and Tom informs authorities of his suspicions. Helen is very upset by Tom's betrayal of Klaatu and breaks off their relationship. Helen and Klaatu take a taxi to Barnhardt's home; en route, Klaatu instructs Helen that, should anything happen to him, she must tell Gort "Klaatu barada nikto". When they are spotted, Klaatu is shot by military personnel. Helen heads to the spaceship. Gort awakens and kills two guards before Helen can relay Klaatu's message. Gort gently deposits her in the spaceship, then goes to fetch Klaatu's corpse. Gort then revives Klaatu while the amazed Helen watches. Klaatu explains that his revival is only temporary; even with their advanced technology, they cannot truly overcome death, that power being reserved for the "Almighty Spirit."<ref nameJulian Blaustein, Robert Wise, Patricia Neal, Billy Gray|dateMaking the Earth Stand Still|url2007-07-22|mediumFox Video; 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment}} Klaatu steps out of the spaceship and addresses the assembled scientists, explaining that humanity's penchant for violence and first steps into space have caused concern among other inhabitants of the universe who have created and empowered a race of robot enforcers including Gort to deter such aggression. He warns that if the people of Earth threaten to extend their violence into space, the robots will destroy Earth, adding, "The decision rests with you." He enters the spaceship and departs.May 1919. The city of Petrograd, the Bolsheviks' stronghold in Russia, is attacked by the counter-revolutionary White Army of General Nikolai Yudenich, who is supported by the imperialist British, and especially by the warmongering Winston Churchill. The city's High Soviet is demoralized and about to order an evacuation, while the White fifth column inside it plots an insurrection. The Krasnaya Gorka fort dispatches a detachment of Baltic Fleet sailors to assist Petrograd, among them is the young Vladimir Shibaev. As the Red Army faces defeat by the Whites, Joseph Stalin arrives on the battlefield, rallies the communists and routes the enemy, saving the city.The film tells the story in flashbacks of a bottle of Scotch carried by a World War II and Korean War Marine, Captain Sam MacKenzie.The film opens on a woodcutter  and a priest  sitting beneath Rashōmon gate to stay dry in a downpour. A commoner joins them and they tell him that they've witnessed a disturbing story, which they then begin recounting to him. The woodcutter claims he found the body of a murdered samurai three days earlier while looking for wood in the forest; upon discovering the body, he says, he fled in a panic to notify the authorities. The priest says that he saw the samurai and the woman traveling the same day the murder happened. Both men were then summoned to testify in court, where they met the captured bandit Tajōmaru , who claimed responsibility for the rape and murder. {{multiple image}} ;The bandit's story Tajōmaru, a notorious brigand, claims that he tricked the samurai to step off the mountain trail with him and look at a cache of ancient swords he discovered. In the grove he tied the samurai to a tree, then brought the woman there. She initially tried to defend herself with a dagger, but was eventually "seduced" by the bandit. The woman, filled with shame, then begged him to duel to the death with her husband, to save her from the guilt and shame of having two men know her dishonor. Tajōmaru honorably set the samurai free and dueled with him. In Tajōmaru's recollection they fought skillfully and fiercely, but in the end Tajōmaru was the victor and the woman ran away. At the end of the story to the court, he is asked about an expensive dagger owned by the samurai's wife: he says that, in the confusion, he forgot all about it, and that it was foolish of him to leave behind such a valuable object. ;The wife's story The samurai's wife tells a different story to the court. She says that Tajōmaru left after raping her. She begged her husband to forgive her, but he simply looked at her coldly. She then freed him and begged him to kill her so that she would be at peace. He continued to stare at her with a look of loathing. His expression disturbed her so much that she fainted with dagger in hand. She awoke to find her husband dead with the dagger in his chest. She attempted to kill herself, but failed in all her efforts. ;The samurai's story The court then hears the story of the deceased samurai, told through a medium . The samurai claims that Tajōmaru, after raping his wife, asked her to travel with him. She accepted and asked Tajōmaru to kill her husband so that she would not feel the guilt of belonging to two men. Tajōmaru, shocked by this request, grabbed her, and gave the samurai a choice of letting the woman go or killing her.  The woman fled, and Tajōmaru, after attempting to recapture her, gave up and set the samurai free. The samurai then killed himself with his wife's dagger; later, somebody removed the dagger from his chest.  ;The woodcutter's story Back at Rashōmon gate , the woodcutter explains to the commoner that the samurai's story was a lie. The woodcutter had actually witnessed the rape and murder, he says, but just did not want to get too involved at the trial. According to the woodcutter's new story, Tajōmaru begged the samurai's wife to marry him, but the woman instead freed her husband. The husband was initially unwilling to fight Tajōmaru, saying he would not risk his life for a spoiled woman, but the woman then criticized both him and Tajōmaru, saying they were not real men and that a real man would fight for a woman's love. She spurred the men to fight one another, but then hid her face in fear once they raise swords; the men, too, were visibly fearful as they began fighting. They began a duel that was much more pitiful than Tajōmaru's account had made it sound, and Tajōmaru ultimately won through a stroke of luck. After some hesitation he killed the samurai, who begged for his life on the ground, and the woman fled in horror. Tajōmaru could not catch her, but took the samurai's sword and left the scene limping. ;Climax At the gate, the woodcutter, priest, and commoner are interrupted from their discussion of the woodcutter's account by the sound of a crying baby. They find the baby abandoned in a basket, and the commoner takes a kimono and an amulet that have been left for the baby. The woodcutter reproaches the commoner for stealing from the abandoned baby, but the commoner chastises him. Having deduced that the woodcutter in fact stole the dagger from the scene of the murder, the commoner mocks him, "a bandit calling another a bandit". The commoner leaves Rashōmon, claiming that all men are motivated only by self-interest. These deceptions and lies shake the priest's faith in humanity. He is brought back to his senses when the woodcutter reaches for the baby in the priest's arms. The priest is suspicious at first, but the woodcutter explains that he intends to take care of the baby along with his own children, of whom he already has six. This simple revelation recasts the woodcutter's story and the subsequent theft of the dagger in a new light. The priest gives the baby to the woodcutter, saying that the woodcutter has given him reason to continue having hope in humanity. The film closes on the woodcutter, walking home with the baby. The rain has stopped and the clouds have opened revealing the sun in contrast to the beginning where it was overcast.In the small mining village of Kitamatsu, on the outskirts of Kyushu, two miners have gone missing. The two men, Goro and Yoshi, had brawled earlier that day, and no sooner had they entered the mine then the shaft had quickly flooded. Shigeru Kawamura , head of security at the mine, heads below to investigate. There, he and the local police make a gruesome discovery: Yoshi's lacerated corpse. Above ground, a doctor examines Yoshi, and discovers the cause of death to be a series of deep gashes caused by an abnormally sharp object. As some of the miners comfort Yoshi's wailing wife, the others discuss the possibility of Goro's involvement in the death. The two had never been friends, and had physically fought that morning. Also, Goro was still missing, and could be on the run or still be hiding in the mine. Shigeru warns them not to speak of this until the police investigation begins. Outside, Shigeru meets with his fiance Kiyo , who is also Goro's sister. He comforts her, telling her that he is sure of Goro's innocence. Inside the mine, three policemen stand guard at the edge of the water, knowing if Goro tries to escape, he will surely come that way . Suddenly, they hear a splash in the flooded mine, and venture into the water. As they wade deeper into the shaft, they get more and more nervous. All of a sudden, one of the policemen begins to scream and then disappears under the water. As the men are tied together, is is not to long before another is pulled under by something beneath the surface. The last policeman quickly unties himself and flees. However, before he can escape, he is cornered and attacked by someone, or something. Soon after, his body, along with the bodies of the other two policemen, are brought up and examined. The doctor announces that they, too, were killed by a sharp object that simply sliced them apart. Later that night, the wife of one of the murdered men runs to Kiyo's house and screams threats at her through the door, as she believes that her brother, Goro, is the killer. Shigeru soon arrives and comforts her, telling her that the officers that were killed were Goro's friends, and that he had no reason to kill them. Someone else, then, killed those men. As the two sit together, the answer to the question of who, or what, murdered the men suddenly reveals itself: a gigantic creature, resembling a gigantic insect larva, enters Kiyo's home, and both Kiyo and Shigeru flee. The police enter the home, but the giant insect forces them to flee. When they regroup, they chase the creature to the top of a hill and open fire with machine guns. The monster launches its self down the hillside and grabs two officers, clutching them in its pincers as it flees. It soon drops them and quickly escapes back into the mine. When the police and Shigeru reach the injured officers, they discover that their wounds match the wounds of the murdered policemen and Yoshi. They have found the killer. Soon after, Shigeru and a group of the metro-police head back into the mine to confront the insect monster and attempt to locate Goro, dead or alive. Unfortunately, as they enter the deepest part of the mine shaft, they discover the butchered body of Goro laying on the floor of the mine. As they approach, the giant insect emerges and chases the men back up the mine shaft. Taking action, Shigeru releases the mine cart, which rolls down the shaft and collides with the insect, crushing and killing it. Shigeru and the others then venture back into the shaft and remove Goro's body. They discover a large hole in the wall that opens up into a large cave. They realize that this is the hole through which the water and the giant insect emerged. As they peek through, they are noticed by not just one, but several more giant insects. However, before the monsters can attack, the ground begins to shake, and the mine begins to cave in. Shigeru is trapped in the cave, and the police can do nothing and the mine collapses. The next day, the police investigate the recent happenings. Dr. Kashiwagi identifies the giant insect as a Meganulon, an ancient species of dragonfly larvae that had lived on the Earth millions of years earlier. As the doctor reveals his findings, an earthquake suddenly strikes the area. Rumors begin to circulate that Mt. Aso, the volcano that eclipses Kitamatsu, might be on the verge of an eruption. When the police arrive at the base of the volcano to investigate the damage caused by the earthquake, they are shocked to discover a man wandering around the epicenter. When they reach him, they discover that it is Shigeru. However, he has received a blow to the head and has lost his memory. He is even unable to recognize Kiyo. The doctors are not optimistic about his chances for recovery, but nevertheless do their best to try to help him any way that they can. Several miles away, in Kyushu, an air base receives an alert from one of their jets. The pilot has observed an unidentified flying object performing impossible maneuvers at supersonic speeds. He is ordered to pursue the object at distance, but as he follows it, the object suddenly changes course and turns around. The object then flies straight towards the jet and destroys it. Soon after, reports from all over the world come in about the UFO. The strange object is observed flying over China, Philippines and Japan, and rumors of a secret military weapon test begin to circulate. Back in Japan, a newly married couple disappear, as well as several heads of cattle around Mt. Aso. When the authorities develop the film from the newlyweds' camera, they discover a photograph of what appears to be a gigantic wing. They match the photo with a drawing of a Pteranodon, an ancient reptile thought to be extinct millions of years earlier. Although the evidence seems to point to the Pteranodon as the culprit, the theory is dismissed as being too far fetched. Meanwhile, Shigeru's treatment is progressing slowly, but no one, especially not Kiyo, is giving up. One day, as Shigeru sits silently in his hospital room, Kiyo shows him the eggs that her pet birds have lain. As one of the eggs hatches, a terrible memory returns to Shigeru: Deep within the mine, Shigeru awoke after the cave in. Suddenly, he realized to his horror that he was surrounded by hundreds of Meganulon. The creatures crawled all around the cave, having survived millions of years underground. Shigeru then looked up and was shocked to see what appeared to be a giant egg sitting right in the middle of the cave. Suddenly, the egg began to stir, and then, all of a sudden, it hatched. From out of the fractured shell emerged a gigantic, winged creature with a sharp beak and a head like a bird of prey. Shigeru watched in horror as the enormous hatchling bent over and began to eat the Meganulon. The monstrous insects that had terrorized the town and had killed his friends were now nothing more than a snack to this new creature. With all of the Meganulon gone, the giant monster spread its wings and roared... Shigeru suddenly awakens, his memory restored. As he recovers from seeing the horrifying vision, Kiyo weeps with joy. Shigeru confirms that the creature he saw did indeed resemble a pteranodon, and that it had eaten all of the Meganulon. He and a group of police and scientists once again descend into the mine and enter the cave where the egg had been. They are able to recover a fragment of the shell before a rock slide forces them to flee back to the surface. In the lab, Dr. Kashiwagi is able to determine the size of the egg and its age: 200 million years old. After amassing the evidence, Kashiwagi calls a meeting with members of the town, along with members of the Japanese Self-Defence Force to communicate his findings. He tells the men that the UFO seen flying all across the world at supersonic speeds is a gigantic pteranodon he has dubbed Rodan. The 50 meter tall monster is capable of flying at extremely fast speeds, which create a sonic boom that more than likely led to the destruction of the jet that had first observed Rodan. Kashiwagi still has no explanation as to how the creature could have transversed the globe so quickly, and why reports of sightings occurred in multiple, distant countries at the same time. As to how Rodan could have resurfaced after millions of years is also a mystery, but Kashiwagi theorizes that nuclear bomb testing, which loosened the Earth and opened cavities to long buried crevices and caves, might be the culprit. However, Kashiwagi admits that this is only a guess. Soon after, Rodan emerges from the ground near Mt. Aso, near where the beast had hatched. The creature takes flight and begins to head for Kyushu, with a squadron of the JASDF hot on his tail. They pursue Rodan over the city, and eventually succeed in forcing him into the river. The flying reptile soon emerges, but his flight speed has been cut by half. Rodan flies over the buildings at Fukuoka, and the sonic wave created in its wake literally tears the structures apart. The flying monster lands in the city and flaps its wings, and the entire city is literally pulled down by its own weight. Fires spread, and the JSDF attempt in vain to fight the creature off. The men, and the machines, are simply blown away. Just when it seems things can't get worse, the JSDF reports that another Rodan has been spotted heading towards the city. With the mystery of the spread out sightings now revealed, the second Rodan now flies over and rips apart the buildings. After leveling the city and leaving the remaining buildings in flames, the monsters Rodan fly away, leaving thousands dead. The JSDF formulate a plan to attack the Rodans. After ascertaining their location at their old nest at the base of Mt. Aso, the military plan to shell the volcano and trigger an eruption that will trap the monsters under the lava and rock. However, Kitamatsu will be completely destroyed in the attack, and the town is forced to evacuate. The army prepares for the attack. Just moments before the strike is to begin, Shigeru looks out the window to see Kiyo climbing up the hill. He runs out to meet her, and she tells him that she has come to be with him. Rather than evacuate, she has risked her life to face the danger with the man she loves. The two leave the area and return to safety, and the military begins its attack. They launch rockets and torpedoes at the mountain, and soon the volcano begins to spew smoke and lava into the sky. One of the Rodans emerges, but is soon overcome by the fumes. As the second Rodan arrives on the scene, the first loses altitude and finally falls into the stream of lava flowing down the side of the volcano. The ancient reptile begins to scream in pain as it burns alive in the lava. The military, Dr. Kashiwagi, Shigeru and Kiyo watch from a safe distance as the still flying Rodan watches its companion die in agony. Suddenly, the second Rodan descends and lands with the first in the lava, and it too begins to burn. Rather then live on alone, the creature will die with its companion. Whether they be siblings or mates, the two Rodans lie dying together in the flowing lava. Kiyo buries her head in Shigeru's shoulder and weeps, and both Kashiwagi and Shigeru watch solemnly as the two monsters, each unwilling to live without the other, die together on the slopes of the erupting volcano.Enemy saboteurs infiltrate the industrial suburbs of London, intending to plant high-powered bombs at several factory sites. Their motivation is to cripple the British economy and enable subversive forces to insinuate themselves in the government. The saboteurs are thwarted not by the traditional counterintelligence agents but by workaday London police officers.The Stooges inadvertently aid a safe-cracker ([[Kenneth MacDonald , who flees to Las Vegas with the stolen "booty." Realizing their error, the trio hop the train to Vegas to catch up with the thief, though not before accidentally freeing a lion from the baggage car. Eventually, the boys capture the nameless crook and retrieve the stolen money from him.In 1864 a group of Confederate prisoners held in a Union prison stockade at Plattsburg, New York, not many miles from the Canadian border, escape. They head for Canada and plan a raid across the border into St. Albans, Vermont, to rob its banks and burn buildings. The leader of the raid heads into into St. Albans as a spy, and develops ambiguous feelings about what he is doing when he becomes friends with a young widow and her son.In the early 1900s, Wally King travels 600 miles to outback South Australia to occupy land he has bought from the government. He is accompanied by his his wife Ma, children Emma and John, and friends Tommy and Mac. Despite warnings from a local trooper, the bigoted King clashes with an Aboriginal tribe who depend on water located on what has become the family's property. Relations with the local Aboriginal people deteriorate to the point where John King is speared. The Kings are in danger of being killed by a raiding party but they are rescued by the trooper and his men. A compromise is reached where the Kings agree to work with the Aboriginal people running a sheep station.{{cite news}}In the closing days of World War II, a small German town comes into focus as American forces advance in its direction. In the town's school, seven boys - each about 16 years old - are oblivious to the seriousness and dangers of the war, feeling excitement about how close the fighting is getting to them, and they live their lives as normally as they can, though they are overshadowed with personal problems: Karl, who has a crush on his hairstylist father's young assistant, is shocked to see them in an intimate situation; Klaus is oblivious to the affections of his classmate Franziska; and Walter is deeply resentful of his father, the local NSDAP Ortsgruppenleiter, who has chosen to save his own skin under the pretense of an important Volkssturm meeting. Jürgen is the son of a German officer who has been killed in action, and hopes to live up to his father's reputation. Unexpectedly, the boys are recruited into a local army unit, but after only one day in the barracks, the commanding officers receive news that the Americans are approaching, and the garrison is called out. As they prepare to move out, the Kompaniechef, who has been asked by the boys' teacher to keep them out of action, arranges for the youths to be placed in 'defense' of the local bridge , under the command of a veteran Unteroffizier . Soon after the boys have settled in, the Unteroffizier leaves to get some coffee and inform the demolition squad, but on his way he is mistaken for a deserter by a Feldgendarmerie patrol and panics. He attempts to escape and is shot, leaving the boys alone on the bridge and with no contact with their unit. They remain guarding the bridge even after they are confronted by a convoy of trucks carrying wounded and maimed soldiers, and an officer bearing the Ritterkreuz, desperate to escape the battlefront. Since the boys have not received orders to retreat, they decide to hold their position under the code: 'A soldier who defends just one square meter of ground defends Germany'. Dawn comes, and with it an American fighter plane which fires its machine guns at the bridge, killing the youngest of their number, Siggi, who refused to take cover because he had previously been teased for his alleged lack of bravery. Shocked by Siggi's death, the boys take up their positions to defend the bridge against a trio of American tanks and their infantry support, but one by one the boys die, shaking their comrades with the true horrors of war. One of the most memorable scenes is when a GI who asks the boys to cease fire has his belly shot open by Karl  and the man dies screaming in agony, while Klaus begs Karl  to finish him off. Upon realizing that Karl is dead, Klaus goes mad and runs headlong into the American fire. In the end, the last remaining tank retreats, followed by the surviving infantrymen. The boys have "done their duty for Führer and Fatherland" by preventing the Americans from crossing, but only Hans and Albert are left. A German demolition squad finally arrives and the Feldwebel in command immediately begins to criticize them, calling them nincompoops and would-be-heroes. Realizing that his friends have died in vain, Hans goes mad with disbelief and despair, threatening the engineer with his rifle, and as the Feldwebel in turn readies his gun, he is shot from behind by Albert. The remaining engineers withdraw, leaving the boys in possession of the bridge, but with a final burst of submachine gun fire that kills Hans, leaving only a traumatized Albert to return home. A line inserted just before the end credits soberly reads: 'This event occurred on April 27, 1945. It was so unimportant that it was never mentioned in any war communique.'Fur trapper Jason Starbuck  comes to Salem, Massachusetts at the beginning of the 19th Century. A general store owner challenges him to a horse race, but his rider's fiancee, Roxana Reil, gives a helpful tip to Starbuck on how to win the race. A romantic attraction develops and Roxana's father advises her not to marry a man she doesn't love. Roxana sets sail for France, however, and her boat is attacked by pirates, who kill her father and take Roxana captive in Morocco, making her a slave. Starbuck pursues her. He is introduced by a U.S. consul to the sultan, who is impressed with Starbuck's rifle marksmanship. He is offered a position with the sultan's infantry and given a slave of his own, Lilith. Roxana has been sold to Omar Id-Din, who could be plotting against the sultan. Starbuck challenges Omar to a duel, with the winner acquiring the other's rifle and slave. Starbuck wins and intends to return home with Roxana, but they are betrayed by the jealous Lilith, who fights Roxana and tells Omar of their plans. Starbuck is taken prisoner. Lilith has a change of heart, however, and changes clothes with Roxana to fool the guards. With the help of Hassan Sendar, one of the sultan's soldiers, they help rescue Starbuck, who leads the escape of other prisoners. He throws Omar from a roof. He and Roxana are free, and, as a reward, Hassan is given a new slave, Lilith. Jeff Chandler recorded the song I Should Care on Brunswick Records from the film.New York City in the 1920s is where gambler "Honey Talk" Nelson  crosses paths with bookie "Jumbo" Schneider . Nelson has two choices, cement shoes or "fixing" a horse race in Maryland. Naturally, Nelson heads to Maryland with his cousin Virgil Yokum  tagging along. Once in Maryland, Nelson falls for the owner  of the horse that has been chosen for the "fix". Virgil has also fallen in love, with the horse's veterinarian . Nelson decides that love should prevail and refuses to go along with the plan. Meanwhile, an English jockey , who is to ride the horse, is prevented from performing his job by Schneider's mobsters and Yokum winds up riding the horse to victory.The movie picks up where My Friend Irma left off, Al  is still trying to promote Steve's  career. Eventually, he gets booked to a local TV station and is spotted by a movie producer. He is offered a contract and Steve, as well as the rest of the gang, Irma ([[Marie Wilson , Jane  and Seymour , all head to Hollywood. The trip ends suddenly when the producer is discovered to be an escaped lunatic. Al tries to set things straight by taking the gang to Las Vegas to work at a casino, but things aren't as they seem. Irma causes havoc by wrecking a rigged roulette wheel, and she gets kidnapped and held for ransom until Al can raise $50,000. Meanwhile, Seymour, dressed as an Indian brave, locates Irma and rescues her. The publicity received during the entire incident brings another movie offer... this time for Irma and Seymour.In ancient Egypt, Pharaoh Khufu  is obsessed with preparing his tomb for the "second life". Dissatisfied with his own architects' offerings, he enlists Vashtar , an ingenious man whose devices nearly saved his own people from being conquered and enslaved by Khufu. Khufu offers to free Vashtar's people if he will build Khufu a robber-proof tomb - although Vashtar will have to die when the pyramid-tomb is completed, to guard its secrets. During the years that the pyramid is being built, Pharaoh demands tribute and labor from all his territories, amassing gold and treasures to be interred with him. Princess Nellifer  comes as the ambassador of the tributary province of Cyprus. Claiming her province is poor and cannot afford to pay the assigned tribute, she offers herself to Pharaoh instead. She becomes Khufu's second wife. Nellifer questions whether Khufu really had as much gold as he says, so she is shown an enormous hoard of fine gold artifacts and jewels, and more in an inner vault that Khufu is saving for his "second life." She puts on an ornate, jewel encrusted necklace which Khufu angrily demands she remove. When she doesn't, he orders Treneh ([[Sydney Chaplin , the captain of the guard, to take it off her and leaves. Later, Nellifer starts an affair with Treneh. who has become besotted with her. One day on the construction site Vashtar's son, Senta ([[Dewey Martin , saves Khufu from being crushed to death by a runaway stone block. In order to get the injured Khufu out of the pyramid to help, Senta reveals that he too knows the tomb's secrets, knowing that he must now share his father's fate. A grateful Pharaoh offers him anything else within his power; Senta chooses Nellifer's slave Kyra to save her from being whipped for her fierce independence. Using a cobra obtained from a snake charmer with the help of Treneh, Nellifer plots to assassinate first Queen Nailla and her son Zanin, then Khufu, leaving her to rule Egypt. First, Treneh persuades Khufu that there is a rich hoard of treasure in a tomb far to the north, in order to draw him away from the palace. Then Nellifer gives Zanin a flute to practice and teaches him a tune the snake will be attracted to. Queen Nailla sees the snake approaching Zanin and throws herself on it to save her son. After hearing of the queen's death, Khufu sends out investigators to look for snake charmers. Panicking, Nellifer dispatches her servant Mabuna to kill Khufu at the oasis, but Mabuna only manages to wound Khufu before being killed. Suspecting Nellifer, Khufu rushes back to the city. In her chambers he overhears her and Treneh plotting; he kills Treneh in a sword fight, but is himself fatally wounded. During Pharaoh's funeral his High Priest and lifelong friend Hamar, , has Nellifer accompany him into the burial chamber because she "must give the order" to seal the sarcophagus. When her order is obeyed, it releases a large stone in a lower chamber, triggering Vashtar's mechanism to seal the tomb. Nellifer goes into hysterics when told the tomb is being sealed, realizing she is trapped. "There's no way out," Hamar tells her, adding: "This is what you lied and schemed and murdered to achieve. This is your kingdom." Hamar, deeming the tomb truly robber-proof, releases Vashtar and Senta from their death sentence, allowing them to leave Egypt and return to their homeland with their people.The action is set in an unnamed American city and is told mainly in flashback, and flashbacks within flashback.  Under heavy police protection, gangster Joe Rico  arrives late at night at the courthouse to testify against crime lord Albert Mendoza . There have been several attempts on Rico's life and he is a bag of nerves, but lead prosecutor ADA Martin Ferguson  reminds him that he himself faces plenty of charges that could "burn you a dozen times". Ferguson is bound and determined to get Mendoza "in the chair" and stresses to Rico that Mendoza will "die, he's got to die, and you're going to kill him." After yet another attempt on his life, Rico gives his bodyguards the slip and tries to escape by reaching the fire escape on the eighth floor of the building, but he falls off the ledge and is killed on impact when he hits the courtyard. Rico was the only evidence Ferguson had against Mendoza who will walk away in the morning as a free man. However he believes that something else came up in the course of the investigation that might make the case if only he could remember it. He and police Captain Nelson  decide to go through the evidence hoping that something will come up.  The case began when a man called James "Duke" Malloy  burst into a police station and claimed to have killed his girlfriend, under pressure from others. At the crime scene, which is out in the countryside, the police find an empty grave. Malloy, overcome with grief, bitterly explains that his girlfriend was a "contract" and a "hit", terms which mean nothing to the officers. He later commits suicide in his cell. Ferguson, the ADA in charge of homicide, is brought in on the case. Malloy only had convictions for petty crimes, not murder, but checking on his associates leads the investigators to "Big Babe" Lazick . When Ferguson threatens to jail his wife and put his little son into care, Lazick confesses that he is part of a "troop"  operating under the orders of Joe Rico who gets requests to commit murders over the telephone from a third party. The gang uses terms like "contract"  and "hit"  in case of others listening in. The killers get a regular salary , their families are looked after if anything goes wrong and bonuses are paid for actual killings. Only Rico knows who the top boss is. The killers carry out murders for profit, the idea being that they are hired to kill someone at the request of someone else . The killer will have no motive for committing the crime and thus will not be suspected by the police, while the client with the motive will have a perfect alibi. Furthermore, the client has to keep contributing money in case of exposure. Lazick leads the police to the body of Nina Lombardo, whose murder started the investigation. It emerges that she was a contract whom "Duke" Malloy was supposed to kill, but that he instead fell in love with her. He tried to cover it up but his associates caught up with them and forced him to kill her. Nina's roommate, Teresa Davis  tells the detectives that Nina's real name was Angela Vetto and that she was in hiding since her father's death. Ten years beforehand Angela and her father, a cab driver, witnessed the murder of John Webb, a café owner. The police eventually find a mass grave filled with dozens of bodies. As the authorities close in on them, the gang begins to break up. Some go into hiding, fearing for their lives as others are killed by other members from out of town. Rico himself is hiding in a farm with his last remaining accomplices. He calls his boss whose answers do not reassure him. Rico pretends to go to town for a contract but instead parks his car behind some bushes. He later witnesses his accomplices being killed by other killers sent by the boss. Rico contacts Ferguson. In return for being spared the death penalty, he offers to testify against his boss, Albert Mendoza. Rico first met Mendoza when the latter tried to interfere in a bookmaking racket run by Rico's previous employer. Impressed by the beating he got from Rico, Mendoza took him to a café and explained the concept of his new business: murder for profit. To prove his point he killed the café owner, John Webb, for which he received $500. However the killing was witnessed by Tony Vetto  and his daughter. Mendoza and Rico got away, but years later Vetto recognised Mendoza as a cab fare and was murdered before he could go to the police.  With Rico now dead, Mendoza will walk. Frustrated, Ferguson goes to Mendoza's cell and leaves him with photos of his victims, warning him of the nightmares that they will give him. He then returns to the evidence room and listens to the tapping of Rico's confession &mdash; which is not admissible in court. In it, Rico describes Vetto's daughter as having "big blue eyes", whereas the body of Nina Lombardo  had brown eyes. On the other hand her roommate, Teresa Davis, does have blue eyes. Ferguson concludes that Nina was pointed out as Duke's contract by mistake. Teresa told the police that Nina was Angela Vetto as a hint: to get them on the trail of the killers without getting involved herself; she even tried to leave town, but Ferguson warned her against it. However, from Nina's photo, Mendoza has come to the same conclusion and, through his attorney, sends two of his remaining men after the real Angela Vetto. Ferguson and Nelson arrive at her house to learn that she has gone shopping. The streets are too crowded for them to find her, so Ferguson uses a music store's street-side loud speakers to warn her that her life is in danger and to contact him at the store. Angela does so and Ferguson sets off to meet her, followed by the killers. In the subsequent shoot-out, Ferguson kills one of the gangsters and the other is arrested. He then escorts Angela Vetto to testify against Mendoza and put him in the chair.As the film opens, a man, Frank Johnson , is walking his dog in the city at night. He witnesses a man in a car talking about a crime. The man then gets shot. But whoever shot that man then sees Frank and shoots at him. The shot misses, however, because it is mistakenly aimed at Frank's shadow. The killer then flees in the car. When the police arrive it is explained that the shooting victim was going to testify in a court case against a gangster. Since Frank saw the shooter, the cops now want Frank to testify. They plan to take him into protective custody. But Frank, while the police inspector  has momentarily turned away, gives police the slip, leaving his dog behind. The police think he is running to escape possible retaliation from the mob. So they contact Frank's wife, Eleanor  to solicit her help in finding him. But she suspects he is actually running away from their unsuccessful marriage. Later learning that her husband has a heart condition, Eleanor gets the needed medicine and goes looking for him, aided by a newspaperman, Danny Leggett  who says he is looking for an exclusive story. The two conduct their own investigation, giving only limited aid to the police. But the police remain determined, since they need a trial witness. Eleanor is aided in her search by Frank's efforts to contact her. In a letter left with a mutual contact he gives her cryptic instructions on how they can secretly meet. The instructions require that she remember a significant event from their life together. But she has trouble doing so. As the search continues it is gradually revealed to the audience that Danny the newspaperman is really the killer. He is simply using Eleanor to find Frank. Once Eleanor figures out the cryptic reference, she and Danny go to a beachside amusement park at night and there manage to locate him. Wanting time alone with Frank, ostensibly to get his newspaper story and pay Frank $1,000 for it, Danny puts Eleanor on the roller coaster. As she rides she suddenly realizes what Danny has really been up to. But she is trapped until the ride ends in what becomes the frantic climax of the film. As Eleanor finally gets off the roller coaster, Danny is on the verge of killing Frank. The two fight and shots ring out. Eleanor breathlessly arrives on the scene to discover that the police inspector has just shot the killer. She rushes to her husband and the two embrace.An American officer volunteers to be captured in order to investigate claims of abuse against American POWs in North Korean camps during the Korean War.Ben Stride  walks into a desert cave encampment during a nighttime rainstorm. He encounters two men taking shelter next to a fire and asks to join them. Stride tells the men he's from the town of Silver Springs, which provokes a mysterious reaction from the two men. They discuss a robbery and murder that recently occurred there. The men become suspicious of Stride, and when they realize his intentions, he guns them down. The following day Stride tracks someone through the Arizona wilderness and comes upon a wagon stuck in the mud. Stride uses the two horses he confiscated from the men at the encampment to help pull the wagon clear, and the wagon's owners, John and Annie Greer, are grateful. Travelers from Kansas City, they admit they are inexperienced at frontier life and ask Stride to ride with them as they head south to the border town of Flora Vista on their way west to California. Greer says he hopes to find a sales job there, but has been taking odd jobs along the way. The mention of Flora Vista arouses Stride's curiosity and he agrees to take them to the border. As the trio travels, Annie shows a growing attraction to Stride. At one point they are stopped by a US Army detail, whose commanding officer  tells them to go back, as Chiricahua Apache have been spotted in the area and he cannot guarantee their safety. Stride and the Greers travel on, finding a stagecoach relay station and encountering Bill Masters  and Clete , two former nemeses of Stride's. As they all spend the night at the station, Masters tells the Greers that Stride was once the sheriff of Silver Springs, and his wife was killed during the robbery of the Wells Fargo freight office. Stride has been tracking and killing the seven men who performed the robbery, and Masters intends to abscond with the $20,000 dollars in gold they stole once Stride has accomplished his task. Annie feels sympathy for Stride, who confesses that he feels guilty about his wife's death because at the time he was no longer sheriff and didn't have another job, so she took one at the freight office and was working the night of the incident. Before the wagon heads out of the station, with Masters and Clete tagging along opportunistically, they are met by Chiricahua warriors. The Apache leave when Stride gives up one of the horses to the hungry tribesmen. The group encounters one of the Wells Fargo robbers, who is being chased by Indians. Unaware of the man's part in the robbery, Stride saves him from the Apache. The man, however, recognizes Stride and nearly kills him, but Stride is saved when Masters shoots the man in the back. One night, Masters "reminisces" about a woman stolen away from her husband by a tall stranger, clearly suggesting that Stride is doing just that with Annie Greer. Furious at Masters's impropriety, Stride sends Masters and Clete away into the night. Masters and Clete reach Flora Vista ahead of the wagon, and there meet with the Wells Fargo bandits waiting for delivery of their gold. Masters tells their leader, Payte Bodeen , that Stride is heading in their direction to kill all of them and avenge his wife's death. Bodeen dispatches two of the bandits to meet Stride before he can reach Flora Vista. Meanwhile, Stride leaves Greer and Annie, telling them to continue on without him. Stride rides ahead into a canyon alone and is ambushed by the two bank robbers but kills them both. Wounded in the leg, Stride is knocked unconscious while trying to ride away with one of the bandits' horses. Bodeen tells Masters that Greer is the man he paid to deliver the gold from the robbery to Flora Vista, and Masters berates himself for letting this escape him. Meantime, Greer and Annie come upon the unconscious Stride and nurse his wounds. Greer admits to his wife and Stride that he was paid $500 to deliver the Wells Fargo box containing the gold hidden in the wagon. Stride takes the gold away from Greer to draw the rest of the bandits out from town, and Greer and Annie head into Flora Vista to notify the local sheriff. Greer arrives in town without the gold, telling Bodeen that Stride has it, and as he walks down the street toward the sheriff's office, Bodeen guns him down. The last two bandits, Bodeen and Clint, ride out to confront Stride, but are killed by Masters and Clete instead. Masters then kills Clete and walks out into the clearing where Stride has placed the box of gold. They face off, and Stride kills Masters before he can pull his guns. Stride returns the gold to Wells Fargo and tells Annie that he is going to take a job as a deputy sheriff in Silver Springs. He puts her on a stagecoach bound for California, then rides away. Annie, however, tells the stage driver she isn't going.Shot on location in Burma, Thailand and Ceylon, the film follows Captain Tom Reynolds  and his fellow OSS operatives, Captain Grey Travis  and Corporal Bill Ringa , leading Kachin natives in fighting the Japanese in Burma in World War II despite a lack of support from their commanders. In 1943 Burma, a unit of American and British forces under the Office of Strategic Services joins with the native Kachin to hold back the Japanese Army. The unit, under the joint command of American captain Tom C. Reynolds and British captain Danny De Mortimer, with guidance from Kachin leader Nautaung, remains frustrated by their grueling duty, limited supplies and lack of medical care. After an ambush mission during which the unit wipes out a Japanese squad, Tom's aid, Bye Ya, is severely wounded. Knowing that because they have no morphine Bye Ya will die a lingering, painful death, Tom shoots him, dismaying Danny. Tom then angrily contacts army headquarters in Calcutta and demands to meet with his commanding officer. A few days later in Calcutta, Tom and Danny are met by Corporal Bill Ringa, who has been assigned as their driver. That evening at dinner, the men run into the O.S.S. regional commanding officer Col. Fred Parkson, who introduces them to wealthy merchant Nikko Regas and his girl friend, Carla Vesari. Tom is immediately attracted to Carla and asks her to dance, but she mocks his provincial American background. As he departs, Nikko invites the men to his country place at the base of the Himalayan Mountains. The next day at headquarters, Tom demands a doctor for the unit but Parkson informs him that medical officers are in short supply and it will be their responsibility to secure a doctor. After Parkson then unexpectedly orders the men to take two weeks leave, Tom refuses unless the Kachin are also officially provided leave. When Parkson agrees, Tom asks to have Ringa reassigned as his new aide, as he has grown fond of the corporal's ingenuity and fearlessness. Tom, Danny and Ringa drive to Cowaga and upon arriving at their hotel receive a note from Nikko, inviting them to a party. At the party, Tom seeks out Carla and despite her cool attitude, asks to see her the next day. The following morning after horseback riding, Tom and Carla are joined by Danny for a tour of the Himalayan villages. During the tour, Danny falls ill and, upon returning to Nikko's house, is misdiagnosed as having typhus by military doctor Capt. Grey Travis. Danny insists that he is having a recurrence of malaria and after several tests, Travis reluctantly agrees. Nikko offers to put the men up until Danny recovers and, eager to be near Carla, Tom accepts. Noting Carla's attraction to Tom, Nikko cautions her of the unreliability of Americans. After Nikko departs for China, Carla spends more time with Tom, but continues to refuse his romantic overtures. Upon Danny's recovery, Tom informs Travis that he has had the doctor assigned to their unit as medical officer. Tom then surprises Carla by insisting that she leave Nikko because Tom intends to marry her. Tom and the others return to the Kachin hills in time to spend Christmas with the troops, but their celebration is interrupted when the Japanese unexpectedly attack and wound Tom. Ringa learns from a captured Japanese soldier that the strike was planned with inside information. Nautaung is dismayed when he discovers that one of his men, Billingsley, and a native Shan girl have betrayed them. When Nautaung orders the two "put into the Circle" and ritutally executed in accordance with Kachin custom, Travis protests vigorously, but Tom insists that the dangers of jungle warfare demand harsh measures. Travis then sends Tom and the other soldiers wounded in the attack to the air base hospital in Calcutta to recover. There, Parkson gives Tom new orders to destroy an airfield in Ubachi, near the Chinese border. When Tom objects that his small unit lacks the supplies to make a successful attack, Parkson assures him they will receive supplies from their Chinese allies. Later, Carla visits Tom and invites him to stay with her when he has recovered. The day before returning to the hills, Tom goes to see Carla, but is disappointed to find her in a luxurious hotel, which she admits is at Nikko's expense. Tom criticizes Carla's inability to put aside her desire for luxury and departs hurt and angered. Tom rejoins his unit and they proceed on their mission. When the supply convoy fails to arrive at the designated time, Tom decides they must go ahead with the attack anyway. Although the mission is successful, Nautaung and several Americans are killed. While making their way back, the unit comes across the destroyed convoy and finds evidence that indicates that renegade Chinese from across the border were responsible. Tom decides to pursue the renegades, despite Danny's protest. The men find the Chinese camp at nightfall and locating their supply tent, come upon several dozen American dog tags and personal effects. Shocked and outraged, Tom realizes the renegades have been killing American soldiers. Danny translates one of several Chinese warrants from the Chungking government authorizing independent military forces to defend China in and outside their borders against all foreign intruders, and stating that all confiscated materials will be split with Chungking. Tom rouses the Chinese in the camp and holds them under guard, but when he radios headquarters to report, he receives a message ordering his immediate return as the Chinese have lodged a complaint about his unit's incursion. While Tom consults with Danny about the prisoners, a Chinese soldier surprises them and kills Danny. Tom sends a message back to headquarters rebuffing their demand and orders Ringa to execute the prisoners. Upon returning to Burma, Tom promotes Ringa to Second Lieutenant and places him in operational command of the unit, then proceeds to Calcutta where he is placed under house arrest on a charge of murder. Carla visits Tom and confesses that she could not tell him earlier that Nikko is with intelligence and she is his assistant. Carla advises Tom to say that battle fatigue caused his defiant incursion into China, but he refuses. Later, Parkson and his commanding officer, Gen. Sloan, visit Tom, who shows them one of the Chinese warrants. Sloan advises Tom not to mention the warrants and demands that he apologize to the representative of the Chinese government. Tom refuses and offers Sloan the American dog tags found at the renegade camp as his answer to anything Sloan and his people might say. A team of military psychiatrists are then brought in to examine Tom for a possible mental discharge, but Tom refuses to cooperate and admit to anything. The Chinese representative then arrives, and Sloan unexpectedly sides with Tom, demanding that the warlord who has killed American servicemen be reported and an apology issued from China to the U. S. Stung, the representative departs and Sloan reveals that the Chungking government had already sent an apology with a promise to investigate the murders. Exonerated, Tom is freed and reunites with Carla before returning to his Kachins. The film diverges from the novel here, in that Reynolds dies in the book but survives in the film and will presumably go on to marry Carla at some point after the war. This is a turn-around from another Sinatra war film Von Ryan's Express, in which Sinatra dies in the last scene of the film, racing to catch the departing prisoner train, but survives in the book.Mike and Tony Petrakis are Greek American father and son sponge diving entrepreneurs who find themselves in competition with the Rhys family, WASP fishermen who are prepared to resort to violence and even murder to maintain their established fishing grounds off the Gulf Coast of Florida. Run-ins between the two clans lead to an exchange of threats and all-out brawls. Further complications ensue when Tony Petrakis meets Gwyneth Rhys, and the two fall in love.Warlock is a small Utah mining town of the early 1880s. A group of local cowboys led by Abe McQuown  often comes into town to shoot the place up, kill on just a whim, and beat up and humiliate any lawman who tries to stand up to them. The Citizens' Committee decides to hire Clay Blaisedell , a renowned gunfighter, as town marshal in spite of the misgivings of some, such as old Judge Holloway  who insists that the situation should be handled within the law . Blaisedell is famous for his golden-handled guns. Blaisedell arrives with his devoted friend, Tom Morgan , his hero-worshiping, club footed, right-hand, who is no slouch with a gun himself. Morgan has a reputation as a heavy drinking gambler, but Blaisedell insists that Morgan is part of the package. They even take over the local saloon and rename it the "French Palace" . Their first encounter with McQuown's men is without bloodshed, though the cowboys are humiliated and one of them, Johnny Gannon , stays behind. He has been put off by the gang's activities for some time now and resolves to be more law-abiding. Some time later Morgan learns that his old flame, Lily Dollar , is coming to town on the stagecoach, and she is accompanied by Bob Nicholson , brother of Big Ben Nicholson, who was recently killed by Blaisedell. Lily had left Morgan for Big Ben and knows that Morgan pushed Ben into challenging Blaisedell, who killed him as a result. Morgan sets out to meet the stagecoach which is being ambushed by some of McQuown's men as he watches from a distance. He takes advantage of the situation to kill Bob Nicholson unseen. Lily arrives in town and sees Morgan there. She believes that he pulled the trigger, although this is based on intuition rather than evidence. The robbers are arrested, sent to Bright City for trial, and subsequently cleared by a jury intimidated by McQuown. In the meantime, the Bright City sheriff, who disapproves of Blaisedell, appoints Johnny Gannon as official deputy. Although he was once a thug himself, Gannon takes his law enforcement duties seriously. The scene is set for a number of confrontations between Gannon, Morgan, Blaisedell, and the McQuown gang. Wanting revenge for their arrests, the released robbers, led by Johnny Gannon's brother Billy , go to Warlock to confront Blaisedell and Morgan. The deputy urgently asks them to leave, and tells Billy, "I ain't backin' him, because you're my brother, and I ain't backin' you, because you're wrong." The outlaws proceed to provoke Blaisedell, and he kills two, including Billy. Soon after, the remaining outlaws try to give themselves legitimacy by posting notices declaring themselves "regulators," mocking Blaisedell's quasi-legal status as hired marshal in a town where a sheriff and deputies theoretically enforce the law. What is more, some of the inhabitants are getting tired of Blaisedell and Morgan, something which, based on previous experience, the pair had predicted would happen. Blaisedell, however, has started a relationship with local girl Jessie Marlow  and decides to marry and settle down, much to the surprise of Morgan, who wants to move on to another town and insists that Clay is nothing without him. Gannon, with some assistance from townsfolk, unexpectedly manages to break up the gang without the help of Blaisedell, who was kept away from the fight at gunpoint by Morgan. It appears that Warlock has outgrown its need for the two gunfighters, but Morgan cannot tolerate the idea that Gannon is now more of a hero than Blaisedell. In the course of an argument, Blaisedell learns the truth about the deaths of the Nicholson brothers, and turns his back on Morgan, who resorts to drinking. That evening, in a drunken state, Morgan shoots up the town and calls for Gannon, but the deputy is locked into his own cell by Blaisedell who insists that "Tom Morgan's my responsibility". Morgan has insisted that he was always covering Blaisedell's back in almost all their confrontations with their enemies, and that he is the better gunman. To prove his point he shoots off Blaisedell's hat, and the other, on instinct, shoots back, killing Morgan. Satisfied that Blaisedell is a hero again, Morgan's dying words are "I won, Clay, I won!" The grief-stricken Blaisedell carries his friend's body into the saloon which, to the sound of thunder in the sky, he burns down, giving Morgan a "Viking funeral". The humiliated Gannon tells Blaisedell that he will arrest him in the morning if he does not leave town. After what has happened, Blaisedell can't face staying in Warlock and decides to leave anyway. Jessie, however, won't accompany him. She insists that she is no Tom Morgan. Lily Dollar, for her part, looks as if she takes little satisfaction in finally getting her revenge. She has in the meantime taken up with Gannon. The next day Gannon and Blaisedell face one another, the latter wearing his famous golden-handled guns. Blaisedell outdraws Gannon, but then throws his guns into the sand, smiles at Gannon, mounts his horse, and leaves town.Notorious gunslinger George Kelby Jr.  and his wife Dora  settle down in a peaceful little town of Cross Creek under assumed identities to avoid having to continually face men out to become famous for shooting down the "fastest gun alive". George becomes a mild-mannered teetotal shopkeeper little respected by the other townsfolk. One day, the whole town hears the news that outlaw Vinnie Harold  has gunned down Clint Fallon, reputedly the "fastest gun in the west", and he listens to the townsmen talk about Wyatt Earp, Wes Hardin, and other so-called "fast guns". They are also laughing at George, seeing him as nothing but a "ribbon clerk". HIs pride stung, he goes back to his store, retrieves his gun from hiding , belts it on, and - over her desperate pleading not to destroy the peaceful life they have built - says "they have to know who I am" and goes to the bar. The men are astonished - and a little afraid - at seeing George wearing a gun, believing him to be drunk. He sets about destroying the myths these men have about gunmen, displaying a detailed knowledge of guns and gunmen they never suspected he had, and finally blurts out his secret that he is the fastest gun alive... "...faster than Earp, faster than Hardin, faster than Fallon, and faster than the man who killed him." When the citizens disbelieve him, he takes them into the street and gives them a demonstration of his skill. First, with only two shots, he hits two silver dollars tossed into the air on the count of three by two men. Following that, he shoots a beer glass full of beer dropped from a man's hand at twenty feet, hitting it almost immediately after it left the man's hand. Meanwhile, while everyone is in the church where they have taken an oath not to tell George's secret, Harold has come to town and finds out about George's display of gun skill from a local boy. Even though he is on the run---and over the objections of his fellow bank robbers, Taylor Swope  and Dink Wells , who just want to escape the law---Harold decides to stay and face George. Vinnie finds out that the "fast gun" is in the church and sends Swope to the church to call him out so his boss can meet him. When the town refuses to send out "the man who shot two silver dollars at the same time", Harold sends Dink out to find some kerosene and pour it over all the building in town, and then orders Swope to deliver a message to the people in the church that if the fast gun doesn't come out in five minutes, Vinnie and his men will burn down the whole town unless George faces him. The townspeople now "forget" their oath and try to force George into the street. George now has to tell the whole truth, explaining that he is no gunman, that he has never been in a real gunfight. The gun with the notches in the handle is actually his father's  and he is terrified at the prospect of actually facing a man in a gunfight. Swope and Wells elect to abandon Vinnie. Dink stays for awhile, but rides off. Swope, who decides to take his share of the gang's loot, is told by Vinnie to either draw or ride out—but without any of the loot. Swope leaves, toys with the idea of drawing on Vinnie. He thinks better of it and leaves, just before George exits the church to face Vinnie. But with no other choice, George forces down his fear and goes out into the street, where he outdraws and kills Harold. When a posse pursuing the outlaws shows up, the townspeople, who are attending the burial of Harold and Kelby, claim that Kelby and Harold shot each other dead. After the posse leaves, it's revealed that Kelby wasn't killed and that a coffin filled with stones, Kelby's gun, and Kelby's reputation as "the fastest gun alive," was buried. This allows George and Dora to resume their peaceful existence in Cross Creek.OSS 117 is asked for help by a female acquintaince . He beseeches him to retrieve secret documents which have been stolen from Sir Antony Lead , the father of Anita  and Marion . He complies with her wish and no obstacle or danger can hinder him to meet her expectations.The Stooges are warehouse workers who are assigned to delivering some Arabian antiques  for a Mr. Bradley . While unpacking the goods at Mr. Bradley's house, Shemp stumbles upon a magic lamp that he, at first, dubs a "syrup pitcher." After giving the lamp a cleaning, a genie appears , startling Shemp. Calling the genie "genius," the Stooges are pursued two Arabian thugs  who are after the magic lamp.The Stooges are detective school graduates shipped off to Scotland. Dressed in kilts and talking in phony Scottish accents, the Stooges  are given the task of guarding the prized possessions of the castle's owner ([[Herbert Evans . The castle staff is actually ransacking the place while the boys sleep there, though they eventually get the baddies.Three outlaws rob a bank, but one of them is wounded. His two partners kidnap his girlfriend take his share of the money and run off, leaving him to be captured by the sheriff. Years later, after he gets out of prison, he goes in search of his double-crossing partners and his girlfriend. He finds them in a semi-deserted, run-down town, but instead of killing them right away, he decides to play cat-and-mouse with them first.During the war, six members of pilot Ted Stryker's squadron are killed due to a command decision made by him. Years later, in civilian life in Canada, a guilt-stricken Stryker goes through many jobs and his marriage is in trouble. Stryker finds a note at home and rushes to the airport to board a commercial flight. His wife Ellen is on board with young son Joey, leaving him for good. He asks for one last chance, but Ellen explains that she no longer can love a man she does not respect. The flight is routine until stewardess Janet Turner begins the meal service. Meat or fish is the option, but when a number of passengers begin feeling sick, a doctor aboard determines that there must have been something toxic in the fish. While attending to others, including Stryker's son, the stewardess and doctor discover that both the pilot and co-pilot have also become seriously ill. No one is left to fly the plane. Stryker is the only one with experience, but he has not flown for 10 years and has no familiarity with aircraft of this size. Due to dense fog on the ground obscuring the runway, Flight 714 must bypass Calgary and continue on toward Vancouver before it can land. Stryker's superior in the war, Captain Treleaven, is summoned to instruct him how to land the plane. Ellen joins her husband in the cockpit to handle the radio. Ordered to remain airborne, Stryker makes another command decision to bring the airliner down because passengers will die if they do not get to a hospital soon. The plot line served as a basis for the plot line in the 1980 parody film Airplane!.Dr. Eric Vornoff , is experimenting with nuclear power with the help of his mute assistant, Lobo . His goal is to eventually create an army of superpowered soldiers that he will use to conquer the earth. Their residence, an old mansion, is guarded by a giant octopus of Dr. Vornoff's own creation which lives in the surrounding swamp. The Octopus  has been responsible for the deaths of local townspeople. Newspaper reporter Janet Lawton  investigates further, becoming a prisoner of Dr. Vornoff in the process. The police eventually follow, led by lieutenant Dick Craig , who is also Lawton's boyfriend. Meanwhile, an official from Dr. Vornoff's home country, Professor Strowksi , arrives and tries to persuade him to return to their homeland in hopes that his research will benefit their nation. However, Strowski is killed and Lobo unwittingly turns Dr. Vornoff into an atomic-powered superhuman being. A fire is soon started in the laboratory, killing Lobo. Police officials, the irradiated Dr. Vornoff, Dick Craig and Janet Lawton all escape, and Dr. Vornoff is eventually killed by a bolt of lightning, forming a mushroom cloud as the film ends.Lt Colonel Matt Brennan  after being discharged from the military, and trying his hand at running a civilian flying school, meets an old US Army Air Force buddy, Major Hinkle ([[James Brown . Brennan is subsequently offered a job at the Willis Aircraft Company as the chief test pilot for an experimental high speed jet fighter known as the JA-3, designed by Carl Troxell . Troxell is also a link to Brennan's past as he had known him in the war when Brennan was a bomber pilot. A flashback to B-17 missions over Germany reveal Brennan is a top-notch pilot. Another link to his past at the Willis company is his former flame, Jo Holloway , now Willis' secretary. In order to prove the capabilities of the new JA-3, capable of speeds up to {{convert}}, Brennan convinces Willis that a record-breaking flight from Nome, Alaska to Washington DC, via the North Pole, will impress the government. Troxell tries to develop a safer version of the revolutionary aircraft, the JA-4, equipped with an escape pod, but dies during a test flight. The record flight is a success with Brennan earning a $30,000 paycheck, enough to marry Jo. Then he learns that Troxell has been killed. Despite his earlier reservations about the need for safety systems, Brennan takes another JA-4 out for the official government demonstrations, using the escape pod to prove that the new aircraft is safe. On landing, he falls into the arms of his beloved.Several American GIs plan an escape from a German Prisoner of War camp. One of them, Sgt Richardson is actually a German named Lt Von Kroner who is working undercover spying on the prisoners and polishing up his American English. Reporting an imminent escape to the Camp Commandant to prevent their deaths, Von Kroner is told he is being removed from the camp as part of a top secret project gathering all fluent English speaking members of the Wehrmacht for an unstated reason. Von Kroner is sent to a German castle with others for Operation Grief, called "Operation OK Butch" in the film where they will dress in American uniforms and spearhead the Ardennes Offensive by committing sabotage, confusing enemy forces and seizing key objectives for the attacking German forces. Assisting in the training, Von Kroner is assigned a team of three other men with various skills including a Waffen SS Officer, Wilitz who regales his comrades with stories of his exploits in terrorising unfortunates whilst a member of the Brown Shirts. Von Kroner's team's activities and the initial German assault meet success but both soon run into unexpected difficulty. Von Kroner's forged orders are countermanded by a decimated American infantry company of the 23rd Infantry that forces them into being replacements whilst the bad weather making the German assault successful ends with American air power attacking the Germans. In their new unit Von Kroner meets his two fellow American prisoners Sgt Ludwig and Cpl Ennis who said they were the only survivors of their escape that the Germans knew about and ambushed. Obtaining plans against the American attack against a strategic crossroads, Von Kroner warns the Germans by radio of the American attack but is ordered to stay with the Americans to ensure their attack fails. Von Kroner's team sabotage a jeep with a bomb killing the company commander, and attempt to destroy the unit's other vehicle, a weapons carrier that arouses Ludwig's suspicion. The company attacks a German position with Wilitz using the opportunity to shoot their lieutenant in the back placing Ludwig in command. Several German prisoners are taken with Richardson/Von Kroner volunteering to take them to Battalion headquarters. He returns to tell his comrades that the prisoners didn't want to escape; they wanted to surrender to the Americans with Von Kroner taking them in. A furious Wilitiz insists that Von Kroner should have shot the lot of them. With news of German infiltrators behind American lines spreading, Ludwig is further suspicious when Wilitz doesn't know what the American "hot foot" is.The 1087 is a British Royal Navy motor gun boat that faithfully sees its crew through the worst that World War II can throw at them. After the end of the war, George Hoskins  convinces former skipper Bill Randall  and Birdie  to buy their beloved boat and use it for some harmless, minor smuggling of black market items like wine. But they find themselves transporting ever more sinister cargoes; counterfeit currency and weapons. Though their craft had been utterly reliable and never let them down in wartime, it begins to break down frequently, as if ashamed of its current use. The crew revolt when they are used in the escape of a child murderer and  paedophile.A stranger, wearing buckskin and a six shooter, calling himself Shane , rides into an isolated valley in the sparsely settled territory of Wyoming. Whatever his past, he's obviously skilled as a gunslinger, and soon finds himself drawn into a conflict between homesteader Joe Starrett  and ruthless cattle baron Rufus Ryker , who wants to force Starrett and the others off the land. Shane stays for supper and the night at the invitation of Joe's wife, Marian , and starts working as a farmhand. Young Joey  is drawn to him and the gun, and wants to learn how to shoot. Shane tries to teach him and his mother that a gun is a tool like any other, except it's designed to shoot people. Whether it's used for good or not depends on the person using it. There is an obvious attraction, and perhaps a history, between Shane and Marian. She tells Shane that they would be better off if there weren't any guns in the valley, including his. She is emphatic that guns are not going to be a part of her son's life. When Shane goes into town with Starrett and the rest of the homesteaders, he gets into a fistfight with Ryker's men after being ridiculed for backing down before. With Joe's help, they win, and the shopkeeper orders them out. Ryker declares that the next time Shane or Joe go to town the "air will be filled with gunsmoke." As tensions mount, Ryker hires Jack Wilson , an unscrupulous, psychopathic gunslinger, who laughs at the thought of murder. Wilson goads ex-Confederate Frank 'Stonewall' Torrey , a hot-tempered Alabama homesteader, into a fight, and shoots him down in the street. After the funeral, many plan to leave. But a fire set by Ryker's men spurs them into pulling together to put it out, rather than driving them out. Ryker decides to have Wilson kill Starrett in an ambush at the saloon, under the pretense of negotiating. One of Ryker's men loses his stomach for this, and warns Shane that Starrett's "up against a stacked deck." Joe is resolved to go anyway. He knows that Shane will look after Marian and Joey if he doesn't survive. But Shane tells Joe he's no match for Wilson, although he might be a match for Ryker. They fight and Shane has to knock him unconscious. Joey yells at Shane for pistol whipping his father with the butt of his gun. Marian begs Shane not to go and asks if he is doing it for her. He admits that he is, and for Joey, and all the decent people who want a chance to live and grow up there. In town, Shane walks into the saloon. Shane tells Ryker that they're both relics of the Old West, but Ryker hasn't realized it yet. Wilson draws, but is shot and keeps reflexively shooting, even after he's dead. Ryker pulls a hidden gun and Shane returns fire. He's turned to leave when Ryker's brother fires a Winchester rifle from the balcony overhead. Joey, who ran after Shane, calls out and Shane fires back. Shane walks out of the saloon, where Joey is waiting for him. He says that he has to move on and tells him to take care of his family. Shane also says to tell Joey's mother that there "aren't any more guns in the valley." Shane's blood runs onto Joey's hands when he reaches up to him. Joey's worried, but Shane tells him that's fine. Wounded, Shane sits up, with his arm hanging uselessly at his side as he rides past the grave markers on Cemetery Hill, and out of town, into the sunrise, over the mountains. The film does not explicitly state whether Shane survives the wound he received in the shootout.Sach is hired to take care of Gloria, a poodle, on an overseas trip to London, England. Unbeknownst to Sach, the people who hired him are actually diamond smugglers, who have hidden some diamonds under some false fur on Gloria. The rest of The Bowery Boys are jealous of Sach's job, and the large amount of money he receives as a result. The boys also believe that Sach is actually taking care of a pretty female. They decide to sneak onto the ship Sach is boarding for London, only to wind up swabbing the deck as punishment for being stowaways. Once in England, Sach and the boys soon catch on to the smugglers' scheme. Unfortunately, Inspector Herbert Saunders, one of the smartest detectives of Scotland Yards accuses the Boys of being the smugglers.In 1945, Roger Halyard is a stiff-upper-lipped British gentleman who lives on a South Pacific island with his three nubile, naive daughters, Violet, Hester and Gloria. Hoping to shelter the girls from the lascivious advances of the opposite sex, Halyard is thwarted when 1,500 Marines arrive to transform the island into an aircraft landing base. Despite the best efforts of Halyard, his housekeeper Thelma, and Marine Colonel Reade, romance blossoms between the three girls and a trio of handsome leathernecks.Great Britain launches the 'Stardust'; the first manned spaceship with a deadly nuclear “tritonium” bomb attached to it.Allied enemies kidnap Corporal John "Johnny" Leatherby, a young American soldier in West Berlin. Lt. Col. Steve Van Dyke, the American provost marshal assigned to investigate, learns through his East German contact Frau "Hoffy" Hoffmeir that the soldier has been kidnapped by East German agents who want to trade him for a pair of elderly Germans. At the same time, the Soviet Union has closed border posts into Berlin, suggesting an impending international crisis. Johnny's father, Charles Leatherby, is a wealthy and politically influential industrialist from Toledo, Ohio and flies to Berlin to bully the military bureaucracy into finding his son. Accustomed to being in charge and never refused, he issues a demand that the military attempt to bribe the East German government using Leatherby's money. Van Dyke is offended by Leatherby's arrogance and ignorance.  They go to dinner at the Katacombe restaurant, ostensibly to discuss the proposed swap, accompanied by Van Dyke's assistant, M/Sgt. Eddie McCulloch. In actuality, Van Dyke wants Leatherby to see the cost of the trade: the elderly female piano player and her blind husband  demanded for Johnny's return. When the Americans move to detain them for forged identity papers, the couple attempts suicide by using strychnine. Van Dyke has them taken to a U.S. military hospital under the care of Major Foster, the cigarette-mooching doctor in charge. The husband is near death. The wife is in better shape and conscious, and Eddie discovers in interrogating her that she is actually English and demanding to talk to someone in British Intelligence. Van Dyke recognizes that he could be in legal jeopardy if the British determine he is using one of their citizens as a player in a "swap shop." The woman identifies herself as Rachel Cameron, wife of Gen. Gerd von Kratzenow, an anti-Nazi conspirator, and reveals that the people wanting them are not Russians but former Nazis working now with the communists. Leatherby begins to understand the complications involved.  Friends are often really enemies, and adversaries sometimes secret allies. Van Dyke learns that his friend and Soviet counterpart, Col. Lodejinski, has been betrayed attempting to escape to the West and has committed suicide with his whole family. He also is told that Rachel Cameron acted as a spy for the Allies during the war. Van Dyke considers submitting to the demands and trading the elderly couple for the soldier. He provides Leatherby with this stark choice. While using Hoffy, with whom Van Dyke had once engaged in an ill-advised love affair, as an intermediary, he causes jealousy on the part of his secretary, Ricky Cates. Hoffy's loyalty comes under question; she is the common thread in so many twists. Van Dyke arranges for Johnny to be delivered by Russian ambulance to the American hospital to complete the trade, but concocts a dangerous double-cross in which he has to intentionally poison himself to succeed.During a banquet, legendary football coach "Pop" Warner rises and gives a speech praising Jim Thorpe. This leads to a flashback. Youngster Jim Thorpe runs all the way home before his first day at an Indian reservation school, but his father talks him into going back, telling him that he wants his son to make something of himself. Years later, a now-adult Jim arrives on the campus of Carlisle School to continue his education. He likes his roommates at the boarding school well enough, fast-talking Ed Guyac and the huge Little Boy Who Walk Like Bear, but nearly gets into a fight with upperclassman and football star Peter Allendine. When the academic pressure becomes too much for him, Jim goes for a long run, during which he outraces some practicing track athletes. Witnessing this, coach Pop Warner talks Jim into joining the track team. Jim is so talented, versatile, and quick to learn that, at the next meet, Pop's team consists of just him  and one other man. Jim by himself beats the other team. After a while, the newspapers are reporting his impressive feats. Jim is attracted to another student, Margaret Miller, but has to compete for her affections with Peter. Seeing that football is more prestigious than track, he applies to join the football team. Pop, worried about losing most of his track team with a single injury, turns him down, then reluctantly gives in. However, he keeps Jim on the sideline. Finally, he lets Jim play in a game against Harvard, but only to kick the ball away. The first time, Jim is tackled for a loss before he can kick. The second time, he again has trouble catching the ball; about to be tackled, he starts running and scores a touchdown. Soon, he is a celebrated football star. Jim tells Pop that he has finally figured out what he wants to do with his life: coach. Later, Pop tells him that scouts from a school looking for a coach will be in the crowd watching a showdown between Carlisle and an undefeated University of Pennsylvania juggernaut headed by another All-American, Tom Ashenbrunner. The teams end up in a 13-13 tie after Jim kicks a seemingly impossible field goal in the dying seconds. However, the job goes to the white Ashenbrunner. Jim suspects it is because he is an Indian. By this time, he and Margaret are dating. Eventually, he tells he wants to marry her, in part because they belong together, as they are both Indians. When Margaret does not return for the new semester, Jim becomes despondent, particularly after he learns that Margaret is white. Pop arranges for Margaret to get a job as a nurse at the school, and steers Jim to her. They reconcile and get married. Jim decides to become so famous someone will have to hire him as a coach. He enters the 1912 Olympics and wins both the pentathlon and the decathlon. However, when it is discovered that he was paid a pittance to play baseball one summer, he is disqualified and stripped of his medals and trophies because he is not an amateur. Embittered, Jim turns to professional baseball and football to make a living. He and Margaret have a son, on whom he dotes. He envisions Jim Thorpe Jr. following in his footsteps and recapturing the glory stolen from him. However, the boy dies while Jim is away in Chicago with the Canton Bulldogs, sending him into a downward spiral. Eventually, Margaret leaves him. Finally, Pop tracks him down, working as a lowly announcer at a dance marathon. Pop offers him a ticket to the opening of the 1932 Olympics, but Jim tears it up. Later, however, he tapes it back together and attends the ceremony. He reconciles with Pop and his resentment dissolves. One day, he drives over a football that has gotten away from a group of kids. He buys a new one and presents it to the despondent bunch. Watching them play, he starts giving them pointers; they ask him to become their coach, lifting his spirits. The film then returns to the banquet. Jim, who is in attendance, is inducted into Oklahoma's Hall of Fame.Sydney L. Pythias , a 'juvenile delinquent' who is mistaken for a gang member. Mike Damon , a police officer who tries to straighten him out by putting him through police training. After a difficult training and a series of mishaps, Pythias finally proves his worth by graduating and become a police officer.After a nuclear war, the people of the planet Davanna suffer from an incurable blood disease. One of its citizens is sent to Earth to examine the blood of the human species on its usefulness for Davanna's dying race. The intruder has adopted the name Mr. Johnson, conspicuous only for his oversensitive ears and his sunglasses, which he wears even in the dark. The sunglasses hide his blank, white-eyed stare which kills his victims by burning their visual organs and brains. Johnson hires nurse Nadine to look after him in his house. Her boss Dr. Rochelle is under Johnson's hypnotic spell after he found out about his patient's peculiar blood cell structure. Johnson's plans are disturbed by the sudden appearance of a woman from Davanna. She asks him for an instant transfusion because her physical condition has decreased rapidly. Johnson breaks into Rochelle's office, but by accident he steals a probe of a rabid dog. The Davanna woman collapses in the street and dies at the hospital. Nadine's friend, police patrol man Sherbourne, tries to question Rochelle, but the doctor is speechless under Johnson's spell. Johnson kills Rochelle for cautionary reasons, but Nadine, the next person in danger, manages to call the police. Johnson flees in his car, followed closely by Sherbourne on his motorcycle. When Sherbourne rings his siren, Johnson, distracted by the sound, drives the car off the road and dies in the crash. After Johnson's funeral, Sherbourne and Nadine stand by his grave, which bears the inscription "Here lies a Man who was not of this Earth". While Sherbourne expresses mild compassion for Johnson, whose driving force was the rescue of his planet and its populace, Nadine refuses any kind of pity. They leave the gravesite. A mysterious man appears at the site, walking straight towards the viewer. Like Johnson, he wears the same sunglasses and carries the same distinctive case .When their latest V-2 rocket test fails and government funding collapses, rocket scientist Dr. Charles Cargraves  and space enthusiast General Thayer  enlist the aid of aircraft magnate Jim Barnes . With the necessary millions raised from a group of adventurous and patriotic industrialists they build a ship at a desert base, but the project is threatened by a public uproar over radiation safety. The three idealists circumvent legal efforts to stop their project by launching ahead of schedule with a substitute radio operator, Joe Sweeney . In space, they almost lose a crewman when they go outside the ship to free a frozen radio antenna. The landing uses up too much fuel, and after exploring the surface they discover that they must lighten the ship if their remaining fuel is to get them back. No matter how much equipment they throw overboard, it looks as though someone will have to stay behind if the other three are to return to the Earth. However, they manage to lift off from the Moon and make it back to home. The film features the premise that US private industry will finance and manufacture the first spacecraft to reach the moon, given the Soviet threat at the time, and then the US government will bring itself to buy or lease the technology. Visionary industrialists are shown cooperating to support the venture.After the Battle of Worcester at the end of the English Civil War, the main aim of General Oliver Cromwell  is to capture Charles Stuart , son of the executed Charles I. However, the dashing Royalist hero nicknamed "the Moonraker" ([[George Baker  prepares to smuggle him to safety in France, under the noses of Cromwell's soldiers. According to the story, he is called "the Moonraker" after a smuggler term; items would be hidden in the village pond then raked out by moonlight.In this serial, the intrepid Buffalo Bill Cody comes to aid miner Rocky Ford and a group of ranchers in their defeat of a local crime lord, King Carney, who is trying to keep the new railroad out of the territory in order to carry on with his illegal operations. Then Rocky asks Cody to don the disguise of a legendary masked man, known as The Ridin' Terror, who once before smashed outlaw rule in the area. In response, Cody enlists the support of Rocky, the settler Reb Morgan and his sister Ruth, and plans offensive strategy to eradicate Carney and his outlaws. It takes him 15 episodes, each full of thrilling chases, fights, and assorted action all backed by a competent musical score.Treasury Agents Art Kerr and Jim Haynes are investigating a global counterfeiting operation believed to be linked to the circus. Acrobat Bert King agrees to help his old friend Art  in searching for the counterfeiters; his acrobatic partner "June Edwards" assists him actively. From the start of their involvement, they find themselves repeatedly threatened by two thugs, "Daley" and "Travis". Early evidence leads Bert and June to a cave which leads to an isolated beach, and contains gear belonging to the gang. They are unaware, however, that in a minisub of this beach's shoreline hides Zorn, the counterfeiter who is printing the phoney bills. Ultimately, however, the evidence points to an unknown, higher authority directing the operations of these men, and apparently indeed someone connected with the circus. Among the most suspicious-acting of the circus staff are Burton the clown, and any of three "rubes", at least one of whom seems to be lurking by when something threatens the life of Bert or June.A small ship travels to a rotating space station. Aboard the station, a group of starfish-like beings discuss how to warn humans of an impending disaster, deciding on contacting Japanese scientist Dr. Kumara. Meanwhile, flying saucers are spotted over the skies of Tokyo, baffling scientists. A journalist tries to get a statement from Dr. Kumara about the sightings, but Kumara replies that there is not enough evidence to formulate a hypothesis. At an observatory, Professor Isobe spots an object in his telescope apparently releasing smaller objects. Isobe discusses his findings with Kumara and a physician, Dr. Matsuda, who takes photographs of the object, though they turn out to be unclear. But they can still deduce the object has a high energy output. Meanwhile, the extraterrestrials have been unsuccessfully attempting to contact humans. They appear in lakes and rivers, frightening fishermen and sailors. One of the aliens manages to get a photo of Hikari Aozora, a famous Japanese entertainer. They plan to have one of the aliens mutate to look like Aozora. Back aboard the space station, one of the Pairan leaders, Ginko, volunteers to slowly mutate into the human form.  On Earth, Toru, Isobe's son, discovers the disguised alien floating in the water. After her rescue, she exhibits superhuman characteristics such as jumping ten feet and materializing in different places. Soon, she disrupts Dr. Matsuda's work on a nuclear device, explaining she understands the complex equations he was writing and warning against the effects of a device. Shortly afterwards, as the team of scientists discuss her abnormal traits, Ginko reveals her true identity, explaining she is from Paira, a world on the same orbit as Earth but on the opposite side of the Sun. She then announces her mission, to warn Earth of an imminent collision of a rogue planet, which is dubbed "Planet R" by the media. They appeal to the World Congress about the situation, but are ejected. Only after they prove evidence of Planet R and its rapid acceleration does the World Congress launch its nuclear weapons, which are ineffective. In the meantime, spies have abducted Matsuda and are attempting to steal his formula to the nuclear device. Matsuda does not comply and is eventually left tied to a chair in a remote building. As the Earth's atmosphere heats up because of the approaching Planet R, Ginko again arrives to learn why it hasn't been destroyed yet. Using Pairan technology they rescue Matsuda and the formula for the device. They watch as the device is fired at Planet R destroying it. Earth's atmosphere immediately begins to cool, saving humanity.African-American coal mine inspector Ralph Burton  becomes trapped underground in a cave-in while inspecting a mine in Pennsylvania. He can hear rescuers digging towards him, but after a few days they slow down and then stop completely. Alarmed, he digs his own way out. Reaching the surface, he finds a deserted world.  Some discarded newspapers provide an explanation: one proclaims "UN Retaliates For Use Of Atomic Poison", another that "Millions Flee From Cities! End Of The World". Ralph later plays tapes at a radio station that indicate that a dust of radioactive isotopes that became harmless after five days was used as a weapon. Travelling to New York City in search of other survivors, he finds the city vacant. Ralph busies himself restoring power to a building where he takes up residence. Just as the loneliness starts to become intolerable, he encounters a second survivor: Sarah Crandall , a Caucasian-American woman in her twenties. The two become fast friends, but Ralph grows distant when it becomes clear that Sarah is developing stronger feelings for him. Despite living in a post-apocalyptic world, he cannot overcome the inhibitions instilled in him in a racist American society. Ralph regularly broadcasts on the radio, hoping to contact other people. One day, he receives a signal from Europe. Things become vastly more complicated when an ill, white Benson Thacker  arrives by boat. Ralph and Sarah nurse him back to health, but once he recovers, Ben sets his sights on Sarah and sees Ralph as a rival. Ralph is torn by conflicting emotions. He avoids Sarah as much as possible, to give Ben every opportunity to win her affections, but cannot quite bring himself to leave the city. Ben finally grows tired of the whole situation, realizing he stands little chance with Sarah as long as Ralph remains nearby. He warns Ralph that the next time he sees him, he will try to kill him. The two armed men hunt each other through the empty streets. Finally, Ralph passes by the United Nations headquarters, climbs the steps in Ralph Bunche Park, and reads the inscription "They shall beat their swords into plowshares. And their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation. Neither shall they learn war any more", from the Book of Isaiah 2:4. He throws down his rifle and goes unarmed to confront Ben, who in turn finds himself unable to shoot his foe. Defeated, he starts walking away. Sarah appears. When Ralph starts to turn away from her, she makes him take her hand; then she calls to Ben and gives him her other hand. Together, the three walk down the street to build a new future together. The film ends not with "The End" but with "The Beginning".In the spring of 1941, Al Woods quits an Oklahoma college to join the armed forces after a quarrel with his co-ed sweetheart, Jo. He joins the Coast Guard, partly by chance due to the flip of a coin. After boot training, Al is assigned to a buoy tender in Boston, the Periwinkle, as a ship's cook. He encounters immediate hostility from the chief of the galley, Red Wildoe, from new crew mates and cooks' helpers Gutsell and Poznicki, and from his arrogant department head, Lieutenant Higgins. In a bar, Al picks up Stella, who appears to do this kind of thing with some regularity. They develop a strong attraction, but she seems to be holding out for something more. Harrison's Reports film review; September 27, 1958, page 155. He befriends Gutsell by fixing him up with a girlfriend of Stella's and learns from Wildoe how to be a cook, making a number of embarrassing mistakes. A frustrated Al stops seeing Stella, whereupon he and the alcoholic Wildoe get drunk together and bond. Wildoe begins seeing Stella with Al's blessing. Pearl Harbor is attacked and war declared. Wildoe abruptly proposes to Stella and they marry. A free-for-all breaks out at their wedding celebration, a jealous Al instigating a fight with soldiers who are clearly familiar with Stella already. Wildoe is assigned to another vessel performing convoy duty at sea. During this time, Stella begins seeing other men. Al tries to prevent this on Wildoe's behalf, but can't resist Stella himself. Aboard the Periwinkle, Al becomes the new chief cook. Higgins, promoted to executive officer, is entering lesser amounts than they pay for the cost of officers' meals into the ledger of the ship's mess and pocketing the difference. He purchases substandard food for the crew to keep the mess budget from showing a deficit. Higgins also objects to finding Al's hair in his food, so Al shaves his scalp bald, earning the nickname "Onionhead." Assuming that all the officers are in on the scam, Al bypasses channels to report the theft to the District Office. During leave to attend his father's funeral, Al reconnects with Jo, realizing that she is the one he loves. In port again, Wildoe asks Al to take Stella home from the bar one night when he is recalled to his ship. Stella tries to seduce Al, who calls her a tramp. She replies: "I can't help what I am." The Periwinkle sinks a submarine in combat, with Al playing a major role, but his accusation of embezzlement impugns the honor of the innocent captain and exposes the ship to scandal at the board of investigation. Al declines to produce any proof of Higgins' misdeeds in order to save their reputations, but privately slips the captain the proof. In a meeting with Al and the executive officer, the captain tells Al that his punishment for an unsubstantiated allegation against an officer is loss of his rating and reassignment to Greenland, but also informs Higgins that he will have to repay every embezzled dollar before his court-martial. He gently chastises Al for not having come to him with the proof earlier, but gives him leave to marry Jo before he ships out for Greenland.During the Great Depression, a rich businessman named Brinkmann decides sink his ship, Anna Susanna, so he would be compensated by the insurance. He orders its captain, Kleiers, to sabotage it while at sea. When Kleiers carries out his instructions, several sailors and passengers notice him. In a fight that ensues, the captain is killed, but not before he manage to shipwreck Anna Susanna. Only a handful of people survive the incident. After they return home, they discover that Brinkmann's insurance fraud worked and he was compensated. They sue him at court and manage to have him indicted.The film opens with the camera tracking down Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, California as police cars begin racing down it. The lifeless body of a young man, Joe Gillis  floats in the swimming pool of a palatial mansion. As the police begin converging on the house Joe's voice narrates, in flashback style, the events leading up to his own murder. Six months earlier, Joe was down on his luck, unable to find work as a screenwriter, having only made a few undistinguished films in his short career. Broke and on the verge of having his car repossessed, with no other options except a low-paying newspaper job in Ohio, Joe tries to persuade Paramount Pictures producer Sheldrake  to buy his most recent script, but fails after script reader Betty Schaefer  gives Sheldrake a harsh critique of the script in her summation. Joe then tries unsuccessfully to borrow money from his friends. Fleeing from repossession men in his car, one of Joe's tires blows out in front of a large and seemingly deserted mansion on Sunset. Hiding the car in the garage, he sets out to explore the decaying house, when a woman inside calls to him. Mistaken for the undertaker to a recently deceased pet chimpanzee, he is ushered in by the mysterious butler, Max Von Mayerling . Meeting the woman who owns the house, he recognizes her as long-forgotten silent-film star Norma Desmond . When she learns that he is a writer, she invites him in and asks for his opinion on an immense script she has written for a film about Salome that she hopes will revive her faded acting career. Although Joe finds the script awful, he flatters Norma into hiring him as an editor. Joe is put up in her guest room. The next morning he objects when he sees that Max has moved his belongings to the mansion on Norma's orders, and that she has paid his overdue rent. Though he hates being dependent on her, he accepts the situation and begins living at the mansion, first in a room over the garage, then in the mansion itself. As he works on Norma's script, he comes to see how unaware she is of how her fame has died. She refuses to hear any criticism of her work, and makes him watch her old films in the evenings. Although she still receives fan mail, Joe later learns that Max feeds into Norma's fantasy by sending the letters himself. He explains that Norma's state of mind is fragile, and she has attempted suicide in the past. Over the next few weeks, Norma lavishes attention on Joe and buys him expensive clothing, including a tuxedo for a private New Year's Eve party attended only by the two of them. Horrified to learn that she has fallen in love with him, he tries to let her down gently, but she slaps him and retreats to her room. Joe, thinking his time with her is over, escapes to a party at his friend, assistant director Artie Green's  house, where he meets Betty Schaefer again. While still unimpressed with most of his work, she believes a scene in one of his scripts has potential. Joe half-agrees to work on it with her, and calls the house on Sunset to tell Max he is leaving. However, when Max informs him that Norma has attempted suicide with Joe's razor blade, Joe leaves the party and returns to the mansion, where he apologizes to Norma and makes love to her. After a while, Norma considers her script complete, and sends it to Cecil B. DeMille at Paramount and waits for his answer. Not long afterwards, calls from Paramount asking for Norma begin to arrive. They come from an executive named Gordon Cole, and Norma petulantly refuses to speak to anyone other than DeMille himself. Eventually, she has Max drive her and Joe to the studio in her 1929 Isotta Fraschini Tipo 8A{{cite web}} , a rare vintage luxury car. While DeMille entertains Norma, many of the older guards, technicians and extras on the set recognize her and welcome her back. Joe and Max, meanwhile, learn that Cole had called because the studio wants to rent her car and has no interest in her script . Max insists that they hide these facts from her. He later confesses to Joe that he was once a respected film director who discovered Norma as a girl, and was also her first husband, and that he now remains as her servant because he cannot bear to leave her. While Norma undergoes a rigorous series of beauty treatments to prepare for her comeback, Joe has secretly begun to work with Betty on a screenplay. Though she is now engaged to Artie, she falls in love with him. Although he likes her, Joe is dismayed at the triangle in which he is now caught. When Norma discovers the script with Betty's name on it, she phones Betty and insinuates what sort of man Joe really is. Joe, hearing her, invites Betty to the mansion to see for herself. When she arrives, he coldly terminates their relationship by letting her believe that he is a gigolo and prefers to live off Norma. After Betty leaves the mansion in tears, Joe begins packing, having decided to return to Ohio. He bluntly informs Norma of the truth - that there will be no comeback, her fan letters come from Max, and she is forgotten. He ignores Norma's threats to shoot herself, and in a fit of passion she shoots him as he leaves, leaving him dead in the pool. The scene returns to the opening. Still narrating, Joe expresses fear over how Norma will be unable to cope with the disgrace, and the discovery of how forgotten she truly is. By the time the police arrive, however, she has slipped into a delusional state of mind, and thinks the news cameras are set-up for a film shoot. To help the police coax her down the stairs, Max plays along with her hallucination that she is on the set of her new film. He verbally sets up the scene for her, and yells "Action!"; Norma dramatically descends her grand staircase. Joe, in voiceover, remarks that life has decided to spare her the pain of that discovery, and that "The dream she had clung to so desperately had enfolded her." Norma makes a short speech at how happy she is to be back making a film, and delivers the film's most famous line: "All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my close-up."Sunset Boulevard script. dated March 21, 1949, by Charles Brackett, Billy Wilder and D.M. Marshman, Jr. Retrieved July 21, 2005.Pete Ritchie  runs a narcotics smuggling operation to the USA from Mexico, which the Los Angeles Police Department and the US federal government have unsuccessfully tried to stop. Because of Ritchie's careful operating procedures, US authorities haven't even been able to find out the identities of his sources or customers and are desperate for a breakthrough . As a last resort, Madeleine Haley , an LAPD officer, is sent undercover to Mexico to charm her way into Ritchie's confidence. Once there, Haley manages to establish contact with Ritchie's gang, but is kidnapped by Johnny Macklin , a hoodlum working for a rival of Ritchie's and who also steals a load of Ritchie's narcotics. Haley plays along and joins Macklin on a smuggling trip for the stolen narcotics, with Ritchie in hot pursuit.The film begins with the arrest of a shoplifter  and her booking at the 21st police precinct in New York City. Outside, Det. Jim McLeod  is sharing a romantic moment with his wife Mary , and they discuss the children they are planning to have. He returns to the precinct to process a young embezzler named Arthur Kindred ([[Craig Hill . McLeod then encounters Endicott Sims , lawyer of Karl Schneider , a New Jersey doctor who has had his license revoked and is now wanted on murder charges. Sims informs Lieutenant Monahan  that Schneider wants to turn himself in to avoid the wrath of McLeod, who has apparently been conducting an ongoing hate campaign against the doctor, who is known to perform abortions. McLeod professes his hatred of Schneider, and in fact all criminals, lamenting that the law merely "coddles them." Two burglars, Charley Gennini (Joseph Wiseman, who played the title role in the first James Bond film [[Dr. No  and Lewis Abbott , are brought in. With his partner Brody's  help, McLeod interrogates the men and manages to turn Abbott against Gennini. Further investigation proves that Gennini essentially makes a living out of thievery. When his record comes in it turns out that he has done far worse than stealing. When Schneider arrives with Sims, McLeod informs him that his assistant, Miss Hatch , has implicated him and will pick him out of a line-up. To McLeod's disgust, Schneider has bribed Hatch with a fur coat, and she fails to identify him. McLeod explodes and calls Hatch a liar before dismissing her. He admits to reporter Joe Feinson  that his hatred for his father and "his criminal mind"  is what fuels his crusade against evil-doers. McLeod then takes Schneider to Bellevue Hospital where a young victim of Schneider's work is being treated. However, McLeod learns that the woman has died, and without her identification, there is no case against Schneider. As they head back to the precinct, Schneider threatens McLeod with information he apparently has on the detective, taunting him that he has a lot of pull in high places. McLeod responds by slapping and punching Schneider until he suddenly collapses. As an ambulance is called Schneider mentions the name "Giacoppetti" and a woman to Monahan, which presumably has something to do with McLeod. When Sims comes by to berate McLeod and Monahan he inadvertently reveals - only in the presence of Monahan - that the woman is Mary McLeod. Arthur's boss, Albert R. Pritchett , comes to the precinct to file charges against Arthur. His old family friend Susan  arrives and gives Pritchett $120 she scraped together hoping no charges are filed against her friend. McLeod calls Arthur a thief and tries to dissuade Susan, but she pleads with Pritchett, swearing that the funds will be repaid the next day. In truth, Arthur stole the money to pay for a dinner date with an old flame, in a vain attempt to rekindle her interest in him. Brody sympathizes with Arthur and talks Pritchett into accepting Susan's money. Angered by Brody's interference, McLeod essentially bullies Pritchett into filing charges, stating that a first offender always becomes a repeat offender , and no mercy should be shown to them. Mary McLeod arrives at the station and talks with Lt. Monahan about knowing Giacoppetti - a racketeer who used to date Mary - and Schneider. She denies knowing them, but when Giacoppetti walks in and greets her, she bursts into tears. Giacoppetti, pressured by Monahan, admits that Mary had gotten pregnant while they dated and gone to Dr. Schneider for an abortion. Mary confesses to her husband, and once alone with him she asks his forgiveness, but he brutally responds that he'd rather die than find out his wife is "a tramp," and asks if her infertility was caused by Schneider's abortion. Stunned and severely hurt by Jim's reaction, Mary leaves in tears. Later, she comes to the station to say goodbye to McLeod and he pleads with her to stay. Mary relents, but after a snide comment made by Sims about Mary's love life, McLeod falls back on his anger and asks how many men there were before he met her, admitting he cannot wash away the "dirty pictures" in his mind. Calling him cruel and vengeful, she leaves McLeod for good, not wanting be "driven to a lunatic asylum." She vows never to see him again. Gennini, taking advantage of the commotion started when a victim runs into the station yelling she's been robbed, grabs a gun from a policeman's holster and shoots McLeod several times. McLeod, in his dying words, asks for his wife's forgiveness and requests that his colleagues go easy on Arthur Kindred. McLeod then begins an Act of Contrition, which Brody finishes after McLeod dies. A distressed Brody then releases Arthur while admonishing him "not to make a monkey out of me." Arthur and Susan  leave as Monahan calls for a priest and Joe calls his newspaper to inform them of McLeod's death.Universally disdained, bounty hunter Morgan Hickman  arrives in a small town with a dead outlaw in tow. While the town's population openly abhors Hickman, young sheriff Ben Owens  admires the man for taking everything in stride and knowing how to handle dangerous situations. When Owens learns Hickman was once a sheriff himself, he persuades Hickman to teach him the ways of a lawman, forcing Hickman to face his past and lost virtues.The film depicts Harry Faversham, a sensitive child who is terrified by his father and his Crimean War friends relating tales of cowardice that often ended in suicide. Young Harry follows his father's wishes of being commissioned in the Royal North Surrey Regiment. A year after his father's death, the North Surreys are given orders to deploy to the Sudan Campaign to join General Kitchener's forces to avenge General Gordon's death at Khartoum. Harry resigns his commission on the eve of his regiment's departure where he is given four feathers as a symbol of his cowardice from his three fellow officers and his fiancee, the daughter of his father's friend General Burroughs. Unable to live as a coward, Harry contacts a sympathetic friend of his father's, Dr. Sutton, to obtain his help and contacts to join the campaign in the Sudan. Meeting Dr. Sutton's friend Dr Harraz in Egypt, Harry is disguised as a member of a tribe that had their tongues cut out for their treachery by the supporters of the Mahdi. The tribe is identified with a brand that Harry undergoes as well as dyeing his skin colour. The extreme disguise is done to disguise the fact that he cannot speak Arabic or any other native language. Following as a native worker, Harry follows his old company who have been sent independently from the main force as a distraction to the enemy. His former comrade and romantic rival Captain Durrance loses his helmet on a reconnaissance patrol. He is unable to retrieve it or move from a position facing the sun as a result of Sudanese searching for him. The hours forced to look at the hot sun destroy the nerves of his eyes, making him blind. Harry warns the company of the enemy's night assault but he is knocked unconscious. His company is wiped out with Harry's former friends, the subalterns Burroughs and Willoughby captured by the enemy and imprisoned in Omdurman. Harry plays mute with the blind Durrance to take him to British lines, then enters Omdurman to find his old friends.Set in post-World War Two, stolen Uranium-238 goods are tracked by the US Government, using new radar technology; the girlfriend of a gang member is also recruited as an informant. Though the radar tracking device helps, in the end, it still takes an undercover girl to get back the looted shipment, from the criminal masterminds.The film begins with what a BBC reviewer called "perhaps one of cinema's most innovative opening sequences."{{cite web}} The scene is a long, behind-the-back tracking sequence featuring Frank Bigelow  walking through the hallway of a police station to report his own murder. Oddly, the police almost seem to have been expecting him and already know who he is.  A flashback begins with Bigelow in his hometown of Banning, California where he is an accountant and notary public. He decides to take a one-week vacation in San Francisco, but this does not sit well with Paula Gibson , his confidential secretary and girlfriend, as he does not want her to accompany him. Bigelow accompanies a group from a sales convention on a night on the town. At a "jive" nightclub called "The Fisherman", unnoticed by Bigelow, a stranger swaps his drink for another. The nightclub scene includes one of the earliest depictions of the Beat subculture. The next morning, Bigelow feels ill. He visits a doctor, where tests reveal he swallowed a "luminous toxin" for which there is no antidote. A second opinion confirms the grim diagnosis, and the other doctor implies that the poisoning must have been deliberate. Bigelow remembers his drink tasted strange. With a few days to live at most, Bigelow sets out to untangle the events behind his impending death, interrupted occasionally by phone calls from Paula. She provides the first clue: a man named Eugene Philips had tried to contact him, but died the previous day, purportedly a suicide. Bigelow travels to Philips' import-export company in Los Angeles, first meeting Miss Foster , the secretary, then Mr Halliday , the company's comptroller, who tells him Eugene Philips committed suicide. From there the trail leads to Philips' widow  and brother Stanley . The key to the mystery is a bill of sale for what turns out to be stolen iridium. Bigelow had notarized the document for Eugene Philips six months earlier. He connects Philips' mistress, Marla Rakubian , to gangsters led by Majak . They capture Bigelow. Since Bigelow has learned too much, Majak orders his psychotic henchman Chester  to kill him. However, Bigelow manages to escape. Bigelow thinks Stanley and Miss Foster are his killers but when he confronts them, he finds Stanley has been poisoned too - after having dinner with Mrs Philips. He tells them to call an ambulance and what poison has been ingested so that, in Stanley's case at least, prompt treatment may save his life. Stanley tells Bigelow he found evidence that Halliday and Mrs. Philips were having an affair. Bigelow realizes that the theft was merely a diversion. Eugene discovered the affair and Halliday killed him. Halliday and Mrs. Philips used the investigation of the iridium as a cover for their crime, making it seem that Eugene Philips had killed himself out of shame. However, when they discovered that there was evidence of his innocence in the notarized bill of sale, Halliday murdered anyone who had knowledge of the bill of sale. Bigelow tracks Halliday down and shoots him to death in an exchange of gunfire. The flashback comes to an end. Bigelow finishes telling his story at the police station and dies, his last word being "Paula." The police detective taking down the report instructs that his file be marked "D.O.A."After leaving the army and returning to university, newly-graduated upper class Stanley Windrush  is looking for a job but fails miserably at interviews for various entry-level management positions. Stanley's uncle, Bertram Tracepurcel  and his old army comrade, Sidney DeVere Cox , persuade him to take an unskilled blue-collar job at Uncle Bertram's missile factory, despite Aunt Dolly's  misgivings. At first suspicious of the overeager newcomer, Communist shop steward Fred Kite  takes Stanley under his wing and even offers to take him in as a lodger. When Kite's curvaceous daughter Cynthia  drops by, Stanley readily accepts. Meanwhile, personnel manager Major Hitchcock  is assigned a time and motion study expert, Waters , to measure how efficient the employees are. The workers refuse to cooperate but Waters tricks Windrush into showing him how much more quickly he can do his job, than other more experienced employees. When Kite is informed of the results, he calls a strike to protect the rates his union workers are being paid. This is what Cox and Tracepurcel want; Cox owns a company that can take over a large new contract with a Middle Eastern country at an inflated cost. He, Tracepurcel and Mr. Mohammed , the country's representative, would each pocket a third of the £100,000 difference. Things don't quite work out for either side. Cox arrives at his factory to find that his workers are walking out in sympathy for Kite and his strikers. The press reports that Kite is punishing Windrush for working hard. When Windrush decides to cross the picket line and go back to work , Kite asks him to leave his house. This provokes the adoring Cynthia and her mother  to go on strike. More strikes spring up, bringing the country to a standstill. Faced with these new developments, Tracepurcel has no choice but to send Hitchcock to negotiate with Kite. They reach an agreement but Windrush has made both sides look bad and has to go. Cox tries to bribe him with a bagful of money to resign quietly but Windrush turns him down. On a televised discussion programme moderated by Malcolm Muggeridge , Windrush reveals to the nation the underhanded motivations of all concerned. When he throws Cox's bribe money into the air, the studio audience riots. In the end, Windrush is convicted of causing a disturbance and everyone else is exonerated. He is last seen with his father  relaxing at a nudist colony, only to have to flee from the female residents' attentions.American army deserter turned criminal on the run, Eddy Roback, is being chased through the streets of Paris. The fugitive finds his old girlfriend, Denise Vernon  and tries to get money from her in an attempt to get across the border to Belgium. The girlfriend's friend, an American crime reporter , as well as a country-wide man hunt become obstacles Roback must get past in order to escape. While trying to raise him money, Denise finds him a hiding place in the studio of a lecherous photographer Max Salva, who may have turned Roback in.Fear and Desire opens with an off-screen narrator  who tells the audience: :There is a war in this forest. Not a war that has been fought, nor one that will be, but any war. And the enemies who struggle here do not exist unless we call them into being. This forest then, and all that happens now is outside history. Only the unchanging shapes of fear and doubt and death are from our world. These soldiers that you see keep our language and our time, but have no other country but the mind.{{cite web}}The film takes place in the Lochmouth area of Scotland, near Glasgow. A group of soldiers are taking turns using a Geiger counter to find a small and harmless hidden source of radioactivity in a wide pit area. Private Lansing finds another mysterious source of radiation where ground water starts to boil. As the other soldiers begin to run, there is an explosion. Lansing, who was closest to the explosion, dies of radiation burns while another soldier has bad radiation burns to his back. At the site of the explosion, there is a Y-shaped crack in the ground with no apparent bottom. Dr. Royston from a nearby Atomic Energy establishment at Lochmouth is called in to investigate, along with Inspector McGill who runs security at the UK Atomic Energy Commission. That night, a local boy, on a dare from his friend, goes to a tower on the marshes. He sees a horrific off-camera sight. He refuses to tell his friend what has happened but continues running. The friend follows. Royston investigates the tower and finds an old man inside who had a canister of a formerly radioactive material now drained of radioactivity. The boy dies next day from radiation burns. Shortly afterwards, a young doctor named Unwin is having an intimate encounter with a nurse in a radiation lab at the hospital when something off-camera reduces him to a charred corpse and leaves the nurse out of her mind and screaming. Royston hypothesizes that a form of life, existing in distant prehistory when the Earth's surface was largely molten, had been trapped by the crust of the Earth as it cooled; every 50 years there is a tidal surge that these creatures feel, which causes them to try to reach the surface in order to find food from radioactive sources. Two soldiers have been left to guard the pit. One goes to investigate a mysterious glow in the pit. The other one hears his screams and goes to investigate. He shoots at something off-camera, but is killed. The next day, a soldier named Elliott volunteers to be lowered into the crack, and on his way down sees a skull. Farther down, he sees the monster, still off camera, and his compatriots race to get him back to the surface again before the monster can reach him. The army uses flamethrowers and explosives in an attempt to kill the creatures, then it seals the crack with concrete. Royston points out that the monster broke through miles of Earth to get to the surface, so a few feet of concrete would be unable to stop it. Meanwhile he continues with his pet experiment, discovering a way to neutralize radiation using radio waves tuned to a certain frequency. The monster comes out again that night; it is shown to be an amorphous glowing mass . Some distance away, a car with four people in it is badly burned and all four people are melted. The thing travels to Lochmouth Atomic Energy establishment to get the cobalt used there. The Lochmouth inhabitants hide in a chapel as the monster approaches them. The creature raids the nuclear establishment before the authorities can remove the radioactive cobalt to a safe distance. As a result the creature grows even larger. As it returns through the village of Lochmouth, it narrowly misses the chapel and a little girl who has gone outside to play. Royston and McGill hypothesize that the creature will move through the centre of Inverness, a nearby town, to reach another source of radioactive material nearby. Royston has some success with his anti-radiation device which neutralises a small container containing a radioactive source but causes it to explode violently. With no time left for further experimentation or consideration of safety, they set up two large "scanners" on lorries, and use a canister of cobalt as bait to lure the monster from where it is hidden. The idea works, but the soldier carrying the bait barely escapes with his life when his jeep becomes stuck in mud whilst leading the monster into scanner range. However, the jeep is close enough for the scanners to do their job, and the creature is neutralised and explodes a sufficient distance from the observers to avoid further injury or death.A young Army nurse, Lieutenant Ruth McGara , is newly assigned to the 66th MASH mobile field hospital, constantly on the move during the Korean War. At first, Ruth is a bumbling addition to the nurse corps, but attracts the attention of the unit's hard-drinking, no-nonsense chief surgeon Dr. and Major Jed Webbe . Jed cautions that he wants a "no strings" relationship and Ruth is warned by the other nurses of his womanizing ways. She sees that he is beloved by the unit, especially the resourceful Sergeant Orvil Statt . Three incidents punctuate their time at the front. When a young Korean child needs special care, Ruth entreats the chief surgeon to perform an open-heart operation, despite the reservations of the unit commander, Colonel Hilary Whalters ([[Robert Keith . Yet Jed is a relentless taskmaster, demanding Captain John Rustford ([[William Campbell  fly desperately needed blood supplies at night, even in the teeth of a fierce storm. When the helicopter lands safely, Jed goes on a binge, forcing Whalters to make his chief surgeon either straighten up or ship out. When a now more assured Ruth treats some North Korean prisoners, a frightened prisoner with a concealed grenade is calmly disarmed by her soothing words. After a North Korean advance forces the MASH unit to escape through enemy lines, the lovers are temporarily separated. When the unit commander is wounded in an attack, Jed has to assume leadership to lead the unit out of danger. Traveling cross-country, he sets out on a perilous journey, attempting to meet up with the nurses who have gone on ahead. Eventually the two caravans safely negotiate the battlefield, and Jed and Ruth are reunited.Little Pablito is the ten year old son of a cruel horse trainer. The trainer is responsible for training a Mexican general's horse to jump for the grand race. The trainer's methods cause the horse to become afraid of jumping and the general orders the animal's death. Pablito runs away with the horse, becoming a fugitive. He travels throughout Mexico encountering several fugitives and a priest who tries to help.Professor Henry Jarrod  is a devoted wax figure sculptor with a museum in 1910s New York. When his financial partner Matthew Burke  demands more sensational exhibits to increase profits, Jarrod refuses. Unwilling to wait to be bought out, Burke deliberately sets the museum on fire, intending to claim the insurance money. He fights off Jarrod in the process, who is desperately attempting to save his precious sculptures, and splashes kerosene over his body, leaving him to die in the fire. Miraculously, Jarrod survives with severe injuries, and builds a new House of Wax with help from threatening deaf-mute sculptor, Igor . The museum's popular "Chamber of Horrors" showcases both notable crimes and more recent ones, including the murder of Jarrod's former business partner by a cloaked, disfigured killer. Burke's fiancée, Cathy Gray  is also killed. But when Cathy’s friend, Sue Allen , visits the museum, she makes a discovery that leads to the horrifying truth behind the House of Wax - that all of the waxworks are the wax-coated bodies of Jarrod's victims. Allen herself almost becomes an exhibit, but in the end it is the disfigured Jarrod who falls into the waxworks.In 1940, France is at war with Germany. The French have removed large numbers of troops from their African possessions, leaving the way open for revolt. American soldier of fortune Mike Conway  sees a chance to pay his way back to the United States by gunrunning to hostile Tuaregs. Wearing a slouch hat and bush jacket, Conway is armed with a Thompson sub machine gun and a wristwatch with an alarm engraved "From Conway to Conway". He finds himself walking a razor's edge between an anti-French Tuareg leader  keen for Conway's supply of weapons but keener to use his tarantulas on his prisoners, a moderate Imam  wanting peace, the local French Foreign Legion commander , and the commander's attractive wife  who Conway cannot keep away from.Captain Vinka Kovelenko lands a Russian jet in West German territory, to the surprise of U.S. armed forces who take her prisoner. She is neither on a mission nor defecting, however, just upset about a personal matter back home. A high-ranking American officer named Tarbell cancels the furlough of Captain Chuck Lockwood, who is eager to leave for London and visit his wealthy fiancée Connie. The colonel wants Chuck to sell the Soviet aviatrix on everything that's good about America and permanently come over to their side. He even dangles a $100,000 bonus if she does. Vinka is pursued by her former lover, Ivan, an engineer. She shows no interest in Chuck and is just as determined to sell him on Russian virtues as he is on influencing her. He describes her as cold and unappealing, but when Connie makes a surprise visit, Vinka strolls into Chuck's room wearing little else but a pajama top and her military medals. Connie is getting increasingly angry with Chuck, more so when she finds out that he is not as well-off financially as he has pretended to be. Vinka begins to dress more and more in an enticing manner. One night at a Russian restaurant, comrades come to kidnap her. A sleeping potion meant for Chuck ends up in Tarbell's drink instead. Connie is mistaken for Vinka in a cloak room and taken captive. In time, the Russians misunderstand Vinka's intentions and charge her with treason. Chuck leads a daring escape in the air and they end up falling in love. Money does not matter as much to Vinka as it did to Connie, but, just the same, she takes the $100,000.A pair of treasure hunters, which includes the beautiful but ruthless Marilyn Blanchard , discover gold in the voodoo idol of a tribe of the African jungle. Hoping to find more such treasures, they con the innocent Ted Bronson  into acting as a jungle guide and leading them to the tribe that made the idol. Meanwhile, Dr. Roland Gerard , a mad scientist who has exiled himself deep in the same jungle, is using a combination of native voodoo and his own biochemical discoveries in an attempt to create a superhuman being. He hopes that this being, possessing the best of man and beast, will be the mother of a new perfect and deathless race which he will control with a mixture of hypnosis and telepathy. He is accompanied by his wife, Susan , who has long since disavowed her husband but remains trapped by her husband and the natives. Dr. Gerard's initial attempts to create a female superbeing are a failure because the transformation is only temporary and the native girl used as the subject of the experiment lacks the killer instinct he deems necessary for survival. However, when he stumbles upon the party of treasure hunters, he decides that Marilyn will be a perfect subject for his experiment. He successfully turns her into an invulnerable monster, but her inherent selfishness and greed outweigh his mental control over her and she turns on him. Ted and Susan are able to escape in the ensuing chaos.Lewis plays Private Meredith Bixby, who cannot fall in line with army procedure, even though he has had 17 months of training. A psychologist , is assigned to make him into a good soldier, and she enlists two fellow servicemen to help Bixby with his training. About the only thing that he can do right is remember things with his photographic memory. Eventually they are assigned to a base in Morocco. One night they all head off to a bar and Bixby gets drunk on "Moroccan Delights", which he thinks are malteds. He gets involved with a femme fatale  and is kidnapped by some Arabian renegades. Abdul  guards Bixby and makes him assemble a stolen cannon, which Bixby had already memorized the instructions to back at the base. Eventually Bixby is rescued by his fellow soldiers and they are all presented with medals of honor.Candy Williams  is a member of a struggling Vaudeville troupe that is stranded in Miami when creditors take all their money. After The Leader of the troupe Hap Schneider  tries to scam a Restaurant out of dinner they are forced to work at in the kitchen and hotel to pay for the meal. While cleaning a hallway Flo Neely  hears Dick Carson  singing songs that are for his new Broadway Show. She tells Hap and Duke McGee  That Dick Carson is staying in the Building. Meanwhile Candy has met Dick Carson But believes he is a mechanic named Eddie. She arranges a date with him and is enjoying a dinner and dance when Hap joins them and spills the beans about Eddie being Dick Carson. Candy leaves thinking that Dick was trying to take advantage of her. To make up for the trouble he caused Hap arranges a rehearsal of a new song for the troupe so Dick can watch them and audition Candy for his show. However Candy thinks he is just trying to trick her again. He finally convinces her that he really wants her to play the lead in the play. But when his backers daughter Lorraine Thayer  meets Candy she is jealous and says she will not let her father back Dick's show if she is in it. Candy thinks that Dick has been up to his old tricks and leaves. The troupe is leaving the hotel when they see Dick leaving and are told by his manager. that he is giving up the show and going back to New York. Candy realizes that Dick really loves her and she tells the troupe that she is going back to her room and disguise her self to get into Otis Thayer's  birthday party to present Dick's songs and get the backing for his show. The Troupe goes with her and works to get Lorraine out of the way so that Candy can perform.The film follows the exploits of a group of swindlers, focusing on their aging leader Augusto, as they go about their "business," reaping both rewards and consequences. It is episodic, with scenes of various swindles  followed by scenes of the aftermath.{{Plot}} In old Baghdad, an impoverished poet goes to the marketplace to sell his rhymes for food. Because the Poet has set up shop in a spot usually reserved for a man named Hajj, some men kidnap the Poet and take him to the desert tent of Jawan, an elderly thief. Jawan, assuming that the Poet is Hajj, orders him to reverse the curse Hajj put on him fifteen years ago, which led to the kidnapping of Jawan's beloved son. The Poet asks for one hundred gold pieces to reverse the curse; Jawan agrees, and returns to Baghdad to look for his son. In Baghdad, a huge procession welcomes Lalume, favorite wife of the Wazir, back from Ababu. The King of Ababu is willing to give the Wazir a badly needed loan if the Wazir arranges for one of his three daughters to marry the young Caliph. Meanwhile, the Caliph, who has been traveling incognito, sees the Poet's daughter, Marsinah, and is immediately attracted to her. Marsinah falls in love with the Caliph, too, but she thinks he is a gardener. They arrange to meet in the garden that night. The Poet returns to Baghdad and begins spending his hundred gold pieces; then, the Wazir arrests the Poet because his purse carries the insignia of a wealthy family that was robbed. At the Wazir's court, Lalume is impressed with the Poet's looks and gift for words, and lets him defend himself against the charge of robbery. The Poet does, but also curses the Wazir. Jawan, brought before the Wazir on another charge, angrily confirms the Poet's story, and then notices a familiar amulet around the Wazir's neck. In this way, Jawan discovers his long-lost son. The Caliph announces that he plans to take a bride that night. The Wazir, fearing that this puts his loan from the king of Ababu in jeopardy, and fearing that the Poet's curse had something to do with it, takes Lalume's advice: they will make the Poet an Emir if he reverses the curse. The Poet happily accepts, and when the Wazir leaves him alone with Lalume, the two realize they have similar temperaments. Hearing the noise of the Caliph's wedding procession, and annoyed that the curse has not been reversed, the Wazir confines the Poet to the palace. The Poet orchestrates an elaborate "curse-reversal" scheme that enables him to sneak out; he finds his daughter Marsinah and convinces her that he will be killed unless they flee Baghdad. Despite Marsinah's protests—she wants to wait for her rendezvous and see the procession—they flee. Word spreads that the Caliph's bride was not there when the Caliph came to claim her. Since the "curse reversal" seemed to have worked, the Poet leaves Marsinah and returns to the palace. The Wazir wants to kill the Poet because he believes he has dangerous supernatural powers, but Lalume convinces her husband to keep the Poet in the palace and use his power. The Poet tells Lalume that he is worried about Marsinah, and Lalume suggests that she come to live in the palace. Marsinah arrives and confesses that she has fallen in love but does not know her beloved's name. Lalume hides Marsinah in the harem for her own protection. Meanwhile, the Caliph's men search Baghdad for Marsinah, and the Wazir suggest that the Caliph marry the three princesses and take pleasure in the harem. When the two men see Marsinah in the harem, the Wazir is shocked that the Caliph's intended bride is in his own palace, happy that she cannot, therefore, marry the Caliph. The Wazir tells Marsinah that she must marry him; and the disappointed Caliph must take another bride that night. When the Wazir privately congratulates the Poet on bringing the Caliph's true love into the Wazir's own harem, the Poet realizes that the Caliph is Marsinah's beloved. In revenge, he performs a trick that results in Wazir being held underwater in a pool. As the Wazir struggles, the Poet asks the Caliph what sentence should be given to a murderer and torturer who also cost him his bride. The Caliph answers "death," after which the Poet says the sentence has been carried out, then flees. The Wazir is still alive, however, and his guards capture the Poet and sentence him to death. Lalume saves the day by explaining everything to the Caliph. The Caliph sentences the Wazir to death and the Poet to exile. The Poet agrees, but asks to take the soon-to-be-widowed Lalume with him. Thus the Poet weds Lalume and the Caliph weds Marsinah—all in the course of a single day.In the aftermath of a big battle, Brigadier General Charles Lane , Master Sergeant Murphy "Murph" Savage  and Corporal Chan Derby  find themselves cut off. The general takes over a farmhouse belonging to annoyed Frenchwoman Simone . Lane determines that there is a gap in the lines and decides to organize a defense from whatever stragglers he can gather together. Shortly afterwards however, he is killed saving Murph's life. The first American soldier who shows up, Corporal Terry Sellers ([[Dean Jones , mistakes Murph for Lane , giving him an idea. Recallng Lane's assessment that leadership is desperately needed to rally the disorganized troops, Murph masquerades as the general, with Derby and Simone's reluctant help. Murph manages to repulse a couple of German attacks spearheaded by tanks, all the while avoiding Private Orville Hutchmeyer , who knows Murph and has a grudge against him. At the end of the engagement, Murph is knocked out by shrapnel, allowing him to "die" and resume his real identity with no one the wiser.The Stooges are wannabe detectives who inadvertently get their chance to crack a case in Scotland. They manage to stumble on a lead concerning the priceless Punjab diamond being stolen by a crook named Dapper ([[Kenneth MacDonald . With dreams of becoming genuine detectives, the trio head for Squid McGuffy's cafe asking for the whereabouts of Dapper. They manage to convince everyone at the restaurant that they are actually police. While searching several rooms above the cafe, the Stooges stumble on Dapper's moll , who hastily hides the Punjab diamond in a candy dish. The boys refuse to leave, suspecting Dapper will eventually show his face. While killing time, Shemp starts to flirt with the moll, and manages to swallow the ice along with some mints from the candy dish. The gal nearly has a nervous breakdown but quickly discovers the Stooges are not actually real detectives. She calls in Dapper and his henchman Muscles  and frantically try to pry the diamond out of frazzled Shemp. After all else fails, Dapper decides to cut him open. Moe and Larry are locked in a closet by Muscles while Shemp is tied down on a close by desk-turned-operating table. As luck would have it, there happen to be a bag of tools in the closet, which Moe and Larry use to saw their way out of the closet, and right into a gorilla's cage on the other side of the wall. The gorilla knocks Moe, Larry, Dapper and Muscles cold. The beast, however, befriends Shemp, and helps him cough up the diamond. Moments later, Shemp explains how he managed to swallow to diamond by actually doing so again.The film shows a family of French Basque immigrants pioneering into the Wild West while carrying their ancestral vines. Hard drinking trail driver Lon Bennett is hired to lead them and he falls for the spirited Gabrielle Dauphin. The film is infamous among Basques for its misunderstandings of Basque customs, such as the use of the xistera  as a weapon or shouting irrintzi ululations as meaningful communication.{{Citation needed}}Matt Kelly  is released from jail and skips town in his boat without paying outstanding storage fees. Back in his home town he is hired by his old friend Jim Kimmerly , the head of the local salmon fishermen who have formed a canning co-operative. The fishermen are battling against an organised gang who are robbing the fishing traps. Matt however, short on cash, joins the raiders, whilst Jim, unaware of his duplicity, keeps covering for him amongst the other fishermen. Furthermore Kelly has his eyes upon Jim’s fiancée, Nicki . Kelly's recklessness eventually causes the loss of Kimmerly's fishing boat in a glacier avalanche. He tries to make amends for his misdemeanours in an act of self-sacrifice.The action takes place amid the deserted dunes and screaming gulls of a chilly Baltic shore. Two lonely, damaged people, played by Irena Laskowska and Jan Machulski, whose characters remain nameless throughout the film, happen to meet on a deserted beach. Both are haunted by vivid memories of World War II and make silent, imperfect attempts to reach out to each other, but they cannot find a means to communicate.A Generation is set in Wola, a working-class section of Warsaw, in 1942 and tells the stories of two young men at odds with the Nazi occupation of Poland. The young protagonist, Stach , is living in squalor on the outskirts of the city and carrying out wayward acts of theft and rebellion. After a friend is killed attempting to heist coal from a German supply train, he finds work as an apprentice at a workshop, where he becomes involved in an underground communist resistance cell guided first by friendly journeyman there who in turn introduces Stach to the beautiful Dorota . An outsider, Jasio Krone , the temperamental son of an elderly veteran, is initially reluctant to join the struggle but finally commits himself, running relief operations in the Jewish ghetto during the uprising there.Soon after World War I is over, "Spig" Wead, along with John Dale Price , tries to prove to the Navy the value of aviation in combat. To do this, Wead pushes the Navy to compete in racing and endurance competitions. Several races are against the US Army aviation team led by Captain Herbert Allen Hazard . Wead spends most of his time either flying or horsing around with his teammates, meaning that his wife Minnie, or "Min" , and children are ignored. The night Wead is promoted to fighter squadron commander, he falls down a flight of stairs at home, breaks his neck and is paralyzed. When "Min" tries to console him he rejects her and the family. He will only let his Navy mates like "Jughead" Carson  and Price near him. "Jughead" visits the hospital almost daily to encourage Frank's rehabilitation. Carson also pushes "Spig" to get over his depression, try to walk, and start writing. Wead achieves some success in all three goals. After great success in Hollywood, Wead returns to active sea duty with the Navy in World War II, developing the idea of smaller escort, or "jeep," carriers to augment the main aircraft carrier force. A heart attack sends Wead home before the war's end. Director John Ford is himself represented in the film, in the humorously-named character of film director John Dodge, played by another Ford favorite, Ward Bond.Joe Boyd is a middle-aged fan of the unsuccessful Washington Senators baseball team. His obsession with baseball is driving a wedge between him and wife Meg—a problem shared by many other wives of Senators supporters. Meg leads them in lamenting their husbands' fixation with the sport . After seeing his team lose yet again, Joe rashly declares that he would sell his soul to the devil to see his team beat the Yankees. No sooner has he spoken than the devil appears before him in the guise of a suave conman, Applegate. Applegate claims he can go one better—he can restore Joe's youth, making him the player who wins them the pennant. This was more than Joe bargained for. He agrees, but persuades Applegate to give him an escape clause. Applegate declares that Joe can back out at any time before the last game of the season—afterwards, his soul belongs to the devil. Joe bids an emotional farewell to a sleeping Meg , after which Applegate transforms him into a dashing young man, now called Joe Hardy. The next day, the Senators' practice is a fiasco. Their manager, Ben Van Buren ([[Russ Brown , gives the team a rousing pep talk . Applegate arrives and, introducing himself as a scout, presents his new discovery—Joe Hardy from Hannibal, Missouri. Joe promptly hits baseball after baseball out of the park in an impromptu batting practice. As he is signed to a Senators contract, female sportswriter Gloria Thorpe plans to quickly get Joe into the public eye . With tremendous home runs and game-saving catches, Joe leads the Senators on a long winning streak into pennant contention and becomes a national hero. Joe misses Meg dreadfully, however, and keeps sneaking back to his old neighborhood for a glimpse of her. Realising this could ruin his plans, Applegate summons his demonic right-hand girl, Lola, a seductress who was once known as the ugliest woman in her territory, but sold her soul to Applegate in exchange for eternal youth and beauty. She is ordered to make Joe forget his wife. Lola is confident that she can carry out this task . Joe succeeds in getting close to Meg by renting a room in his old house; Meg is unaware of his baseball stardom. Applegate and Lola manage to corner Joe in the baseball team's locker room, where Lola confidently tries to seduce Joe . But she has her first failure—Joe dearly loves Meg, and does not fall for Lola's tempting ways. Applegate angrily banishes Lola. By the end of the season, the Senators are on the verge of overtaking the Yankees, so their fans hold a lavish tribute . Gloria, having returned from Hannibal, Missouri, where no residents remember a Joe Hardy, confronts Applegate about the player's true identity. Applegate implies that Joe is actually Shifty McCoy, a corrupt minor leaguer playing under a pseudonym. By the end of the tribute, newspapers arrive accusing Joe of being Shifty. He must meet with the baseball commissioner for a hearing or else be thrown out of baseball—on the day he plans to switch back to being Joe Boyd. At the hearing, Meg and her female neighbors arrive as material witnesses, attesting to Joe's honesty and falsely claiming he grew up with them in Hannibal. The commissioner acquits Joe, but as everyone celebrates, midnight strikes. Joe realizes he's doomed. Applegate has planned for the Senators to lose the pennant on the last day of the season, resulting in thousands of heart attacks, nervous breakdowns and suicides of Yankee-haters across the country. He's reminded of his other evil misdeeds throughout history  Following the hearing, Lola lets Joe know she's drugged Applegate so that he will sleep through the last game. They commiserate over their condemned situation at a nightclub . Late the next afternoon, Applegate awakens to find the Senators/Yankees game well underway. Realizing Lola has tricked him—and worse, that Lola has actually fallen in love with Joe—he turns her back into an ugly hag. They arrive at the ballpark by the ninth inning, the Senators up by a run. With two outs, one of the Yankee sluggers  hits a long drive to the outfield. Applegate impulsively switches Joe Hardy back into Joe Boyd in full view of the stadium. Now paunchy and middle-aged, Joe makes a final lunge at the ball and catches it. Washington wins the pennant! As his teammates celebrate and fans storm the field, an unrecognized Joe escapes from the ballpark. Late that night, as the public wonders why Joe Hardy has disappeared, Joe Boyd meekly returns to his house. Meg quickly hugs him with her tears and they sing to each other . Applegate materializes once again and tries to make amends by offering Joe the chance to resume being Joe Hardy in time for the World Series. Joe ignores him, and a tantrum-throwing Applegate vanishes for good.The film begins with Robinson as a child, being given a worn-out baseball glove by a stranger impressed by his fielding skills. As a young man, he becomes a multi-sport star at the University of California, Los Angeles, but as he nears graduation, he worries about his future. His older brother Mack was also an outstanding college athlete and graduate, but the only job he could get was that of a lowly street cleaner. When America enters World War II, Robinson is drafted, serving as an athletic director. Afterward, he plays baseball with a professional African-American team. However, the constant travel keeps him away from his college sweetheart, Rae. Then one day, Brooklyn Dodgers scout Clyde Sukeforth invites him to meet Branch Rickey, president of the Major League Baseball team. At first, Robinson considers the offer to be a practical joke, as there are no African Americans allowed in the segregated major leagues. When he is convinced that the opportunity is genuine, he and Rickey size each other up. After thinking over Rickey's warning about the hatred and abuse he would have to endure without being able to strike back, Robinson signs with the Dodgers' International League farm team, the Montreal Royals. Though he wants to delay marrying Rae to shield her, she insists on an immediate wedding so she can support her man in the trying times ahead. Robinson leads the league in hitting in his first year, and despite the grave concerns expressed by the Commissioner of Major League Baseball, Rickey goes ahead and promotes him to the Dodgers. Reviled at first by many of the fans and some of his own teammates, Robinson gets off to a shaky start, playing out of position at first base and going through a hitting slump, but then gradually wins people over with his talent and determination. The team goes on to win the pennant, with Robinson driving in the tying run and scoring the winning one in the deciding game. At the end, Robinson is invited to address the United States House of Representatives in Washington, D.C.Johnny McBride is badly hurt while hitch hiking and loses his memory when the car he is riding in crashes. Two years later, a clue leads him to his old home town, where he finds he is a murder suspect. Johnny tries to clear his name of the presumed murder charges. Thugs working for the local mob boss try to end his meddling.{{Plot}} Mike Frye  and Deborah Patterson , co-owners of an advertising firm, have a big hit when they recycle some old Western films starring "Smoky" Callaway  for a new television audience. Tom Lorrison , the show's sponsor, is eager to make more films, but nobody has seen Smoky in ten years. Under intense pressure to produce the star, Frye hires Smoky's agent, Georgie Markham ([[Jesse White , to go look for him. Salvation comes in the form of a letter from a real cowboy named "Stretch" Barnes , who complains that his friends keep making fun of him because of his resemblance to Smoky. After one look at the enclosed photograph, Frye and Patterson travel to see him. They talk a reluctant Stretch into impersonating Smoky, telling him that Smoky is dead. After a dinner with Lorrison and his wife Martha , a big fan of the actor, Frye and Patterson get the go-ahead to launch a marketing campaign. Patterson heads out on a nation-wide publicity tour with Stretch. As they spend time together, Stretch falls in love with her and eventually presents her with an engagement ring. She is reluctant to accept it, but he tells her to keep it and put it on only if she ever decides she loves him back. Things get sticky when Markham finally finds Smoky in a Mexican bar. He has not changed a bit; he is still a selfish, womanizing drunk. Smoky is uninterested in going back to work, but Markham shanghais him and talks him into it on the boat trip back. Frye is not pleased when Smoky shows up in his office, but sees he has no choice. He sends Smoky to a health farm to get back into shape. However, despite strict supervision, Smoky manages to stash bottles of liquor everywhere. When a woman accosts Stretch on the street and accuses him of not doing anything for needy children, he is moved. After some thought, he secretly hires a lawyer to set up a children's foundation which will receive all of his earnings except a modest allowance for him . When Smoky and Stretch meet by chance, Stretch discovers he has been duped and decides to go home. That night, the law firm's west coast representative  shows up with the legal document setting up the charity foundation. Stretch comes up with a plan. With Smoky still out of shape, Frye and Patterson had begged him to make an appearance at the Los Angeles Coliseum. Stretch decides to accept, intending to sign the document in front of 90,000 fans and dignitaries. When Smoky learns of his scheme, he objects; the two men get into a brawl and Smoky gets knocked out. Frye and Markham try to intervene and suffer the same fate. When Smoky comes to, he realizes he cannot stop Stretch, so he goes back to Mexico since he would only get paid a modest salary for a lot of hard work. At the Coliseum, Stretch runs into Patterson, who not only approves of his plan, but is also wearing his ring.The Stooges are stage hands who also have small parts in the production of "The Bride Wore Spurs." They quickly get on the bad side of their producer, B. K. Doaks , who has had his last several plays panned by famous critic Nick Barker  and wants to put on a good show with what he has. In order to prevent Barker from getting in to see the play, he commissions the boys to stop him from sneaking in, which they fail to do as a result of their confusing disguises . B.K. reprimands the Stooges and demands they get the props ready for the final act , but Moe is reminded that he forgot to go shopping for them. It is also late at night and the stores are closed, so the Stooges have to whip up a cake and salad for the act to appease B.K. and save the show. However, as the cake is being prepared, Shemp accidentally tosses a pot holder onto a cake pan, resulting in Moe unintentionally adding it into the cake. As the final scene commences, the Stooges and a number of other bit actors, as Southern Gentlemen, all propose to "Janie Belle"  at once, and she proposes a contest; whoever eats the most of her cake gets her hand in marriage. However, the cake is difficult to eat as a result of the pot holder, and after ingesting their pieces, all the actors begin coughing up feathers, causing all in attendance to start laughing uproariously. B.K. is mortified and cues the curtain down, and as the Stooges drink copious amounts of punch to quell the feathers in their mouths, B.K. tears into them. However, in a reversal of fortunes, Barker thinks the play is a hilarious satire and commends the Stooges' performance before asking to see B.K.'s next work. B.K. then claims that the next work will star the Stooges as the main roles, and the boys are redeemed.This psychological thriller tells the story of Jeff Cohalan ([[Robert Young . He's a successful architect who is tormented by the fact that his fiancée was killed in a mysterious car accident on the night before their wedding. Blaming himself for her death, Colahan spends his time alone, lamenting in the state-of-the-art cliff-top home he'd designed for his bride-to-be. Cohalan also notices that ever since the accident, he seems to be followed by bad luck. His horse and dog turn up dead without explanation, leading him to wonder if he has been cursed. He meets a woman named Ellen , and they are immediately attracted to each other. She soon learns about Jeff's past and begins to suspect that Jeff may be much more in danger than he himself realizes.The movie opens with a young couple parked in a bleak, rural locale overlooking a ravine. A giant gila monster attacks the car, sending it into the ravine and killing the couple. Later, some friends of the couple decide to assist the local sheriff  in his search for the missing teens. Chase Winstead , a young mechanic and hot rod racer, locates the crashed car in the ravine and finds evidence of the giant lizard. However, it is only when the hungry reptile attacks a train  that the authorities realize they are dealing with a  70-foot poisonous lizard. By this time, emboldened by its attacks and hungry for prey, the creature attacks the town. It makes straight for the local dance hall where all the teenagers had gathered for a sock hop. However, Chase packs his prized hot rod with nitroglycerin and rigs it to speed straight into the monster, terminating the lizard in a fiery explosion and heroically saving the town.Based on a true story, the US secret service goes after a gang of counterfeiters, whose engraver  has secretly constructed his plates while in prison. A federal agent  poses as the counterfeiters' contact man in order to purchase enough bills to incriminate the gang.{{Expand section}} A Chicago youth, Nick Conover , in trouble with the criminal justice system for joyriding, has been released on probation with a special condition that he lives and works on the Kentucky farm of his distant aunt Henrietta and uncle Jed Bruce , and does not get in any further trouble. There, in the middle of nowhere, Nick is forlorn, especially as his uncle does not welcome him with open arms. Nick finds that sulky horse racing is the popular pastime in this area of the country. Although initially his preference is to race and repair hot-rod cars, he finds he has an innate connection with the only remaining horse on the farm. A local lass  teaches him much about the sport and "April love" ensues.Narrator John Wiggin begins the film with a scholarly overview of the place and time of the life of Martin Luther. He points out that power is divided between the Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire and the Roman Catholic Church. To set the stage for the presentation of Luther's conflict with the church of his day he states, "the church had largely forgotten the mercies of God; and, instead, it emphasized God's implacable judgments." Since he will soon be entering the Augustinian cloister Martin Luther holds a "going away" party at a local public house with his fellow law students. Conspicuous among his guests is George Spalatin, who provides an inquiring interest into Luther's motivation to leave the study of law. Luther's entrance into monastic life is then portrayed. He does not find the spiritual peace he sought even though he follows a strict regimen of ascetic piety to the point of flagellating himself half to death. He is shown in sheer terror at the celebration of his first mass as a newly ordained priest. After he struggles through his first mass he confesses to his mentor, Vicar General Johann von Staupitz that he cannot love God. Subsequently, the dour-faced prior proposes expelling Luther from the order because of his restless mind, but Staupitz believes that rigorous theological study and a pilgrimage embassy to Rome will help the troubled young monk. After he had returned from Rome, just after completing a prayer office, Luther expresses his opinion to his fellow monks that the common people could more easily find God to be merciful if they had the Holy Scriptures in their vernacular language. He is then confronted and scolded by his stern prior. Then while studying in the Erfurt university library Luther is met by George Spalatin, who had also left the study of the law for a vocation in the church: in his case to serve Frederick III, Elector of Saxony. Spalatin renews his interest in Luther's quest, "Have you found what you were looking for?" Luther responds, "Not yet." Spalatin then recommends Luther to the Elector as a preacher at the castle church and professor of biblical studies at the newly founded University of Wittenberg. Luther is then shown baptizing an infant in the castle church. At Wittenberg Luther receives his degree of Doctor of Theology when he promises to be a faithful teacher in the church; however, he has difficulty in accepting the practice even there in Wittenberg of collecting and showcasing relics. The film presents Luther as having undergone his "reformatory discovery" through his study of the Epistle to the Romans for his lectures on this biblical book. He tells his mentor Staupitz that one only need have faith in Jesus Christ for salvation. Staupitz leaves unpersuaded, but Luther writes the word "sola"  in the margin of his Latin Bible to show his firm persuasion in the doctrine of justification by faith alone. A few years go by. It is now 1517, and in Rome Pope Leo X arranges with Archbishop Albert to promulgate in Germany a special jubilee indulgence. Johann Tetzel is the main preacher of this indulgence, and his pitch is presented in public with the beating of drums. That same evening Martin Luther comes across one of his parishioners in a drunken stupor with the conviction that he does not need to go to confession anymore because he has bought one of Tetzel's indulgences. Luther then preaches against what he believes to be the abuse of indulgences with the appeal, "Beloved, you cannot buy God's mercy." He then also posts his The Ninety-Five Theses on the door of the castle church, which does not seem to arouse any attention until his theses are copied down, translated, and printed for all of Germany to read, hear, and comment about. Tetzel finds that his sales of indulgences have fallen off, which moves Archbishop Albert of Mainz to send a copy of Luther's theses to the pope. In 1519 Andreas Karlstadt tells Luther and newly installed professor Philipp Melanchthon of his being invited to Leipzig to debate what he calls "our theses." To Karlstadt's disappointment Luther invites himself and Melanchthon along. When they arrive in Lepzig, they see that there is a movement afoot to link Luther with Jan Hus in order to brand him as a heretic. Luther debates Johann Eck, who shouts, "Heresy, Dr. Luther, Heresy!" with Luther responding, "So be it! It is still the truth!" After the debate at which he was present Staupitz releases Luther from his vows as an Augustinian monk when Luther refuses to stop promoting his doctrine. The pope is furious with Luther's publications of 1520 , so he issues his bull Exsurge Domine threatening Luther with excommunication. It too is disseminated in as public a manner as Luther's Ninety-five Theses, but Luther responds by burning it on the deadline demanded for his retraction. Cardinal Aleander goes to Elector Frederick to demand that he hand Luther over to the pope. It is there that the film has him meet Desiderius Erasmus, who seems to trivialize the matter. The Elector says that Luther will appear at the upcoming Diet of Worms. At Worms Luther is surprised by the procedure instigated by Aleander of simply asking him if he acknowledges his printed writings and whether he is willing to retract any of his assertions in those writings. Luther asks for time and is given until the next day. Then he gives his answer that he will not recant, ending with, "Here I stand. I can do no other. God help me. Amen." Emperor Charles V angrily promulgates his Edict of Worms outlawing Luther and giving him twenty-one days to return to Wittenberg. Elector Frederick, spurned by the emperor, has Luther quietly abducted to his stronghold of the Wartburg near Eisenach where for almost a year Luther stays in hiding. It is here that he translates the New Testament into German. He has a retainer of the Elector read a portion of John 6 to show that "a German lark can sing as sweetly as any Greek or Latin nightingale." Luther's exile is brought to a close with Karlstadt's revolutionary uprising in Wittenberg and the Electorate of Saxony, which causes churches to be desecrated. Luther preaches his "how dare you"  sermons to restore order to his troubled congregation. In the course of the film Luther is shown marrying a former nun Katharina von Bora to the delight of his father, who is shown attending the wedding. Luther and Kathie's family room is the scene of Luther holding instructions from his catechism. He is dismayed that he cannot join his fellow reformers in Augsburg as they appear before the diet there in 1530. There the Augsburg Confession is courageously presented to the emperor followed in the film by the pealing of bells, and Luther offering a prayer of thanksgiving to God for his faithfulness to his generation. The film ends with the people of his congregation, young and old, rich and poor alike, singing to him his hymn A Mighty Fortress Is Our God in its isometric tune.Mercenary Martin Brady is employed by the Castro brothers, Marcos , a General and Cipriano  a Governor. On a business trip to the United States to arrange the sale of a wagonload of rifles and ammunition he is delayed when he breaks his leg in an accident. Treated by Dr Stovall  he stays with two German Americans, Ben  and Ludwig  to recover. Brady's expertise is sought by the commanders of the local U.S. Army, Major Colton  and Texas Rangers Captain Rucker  who are planning a mission against hostile Apaches in Mexico. Captain Rucker knows that Brady revenged himself on the murderer of his father but no charges are standing. However his falling in love with Colton's wife Helen , and also his shooting a man who drew on him  sends him back to Mexico. Brady finds himself between the ambitious Castro brothers and assisting the U.S. Army's Buffalo Soldiers led by a wounded Major Colton and his sergeant .{{cite journal}}A young heiress to a cattle station, Kim Marsden, becomes convinced her father was murdered. She sends for a bushman called the Sundowner and his aboriginal offsider, Dancer. They discover that the person behind the murder is Kim's neighbor, Stapleton, who is in league with some cattle rustlers and is romantically interested in Kim. The rustlers kidnap Sundowner but he uses telepathy to get Dancer to come to his rescue. Kim is united with her true love, McLeod.Mayer, Geoff. The Phantom Stockman: Lee Robinson, Chips Rafferty and the Film Industry that Nobody Wanted. Metro Magazine: Media & Education Magazine, No. 142, Autumn 2005: 16-20.After numerous fruitless negotiations with the Allies about the independence of Austria, the Austrian prime minister prompts his fellow countrymen to shred their four-language identity cards, which have been issued by the Allies, thus sending a clear signal to the world. Thereupon, Austria is charged for breaking the "world peace" at the fictitious "world court". The implicated message is clear: in the same manner as Austria was, in Austria's eyes, falsely indicted for breaking the world peace , they are now being indicted again in 2000. The world court hovers in with its space rocket into Vienna and lands in front of Schönbrunn Palace. The Austrians now have to prove that they are a lovely nation, and that they would never break the world peace. Subsequently, everything which is supposed to make Austria lovely is presented, starting with Mozart, going over Prince Eugene of Savoy, Empress Maria Theresa of Austria, Viennese wine, the Viennese waltz, the mountains, the classic bands, etc. Despite the presented evidence, Austria will be found guilty. Just before the conviction is made, the Moscow Declaration of 1943 is discovered. The declaration clearly states that Austria is to be freed, which happens at the end of the film. Back in the current time of 1952, and in reality, it is bemoaned that those actions and the independence of Austria will not take place until the year 2000.Master Sergeant Joe Lawrence  is stationed in Berlin shortly after the end of World War II where he falls in love with Maria , a refugee. Maria is trying to raise enough money to move a group of German orphans to South America, where they can start life anew. Joe wants to help her, and with his buddies British Corps of Military Police Sergeant Roger Morris  and ex-RAF pilot Brian Hammell , Joe plans a daring robbery. A fortune in recently discovered gold bullion is being transferred to England from Germany via military transport, and the trio intend to hijack the plane. While the robbery goes off almost as planned, the three participants begin to have second thoughts about what to do with their ill-gotten gains.Three petty officers have returned from Korea on the battle cruiser USS Rochester where they are due for shore leave in California. Skip and Joe have no money due to losses in a crap game but their shipmate Francis "Moby" Dickerson has $300 he won in poker. Skip and Joe have constantly taken advantage of Moby throughout their cruise and beg some money off him that Moby cannot refuse them. Moby wishes to spend his leave on Santa Catalina but his shipmates take an unwilling Moby to an off limits clip joint bar where bargirls and a bartender drug and rob them of all their money. Waking up broke and guilty but wiser, Joe is determined to get Moby to Santa Catalina by using his scheming ability. Joe arranges their passage and $5 dollars each in exchange for Moby working on the ship. Skip meets dancer Gay Knight where an impromptu dance session earns them some more money that entertained passengers throw at them. Gay takes them to her trailer park where the three have enough money for two of them to rent a cabin; Moby has to sneak in at night and sleep at the floor. Skip arranges more money and meals for a second day by having Moby work as a waiter in a night club. Moby meets Nancy, the daughter of the trailer park owner when she hits him in the head with a horseshoe, but Skip later sweeps her off her feet and takes her for his own girl. After entering a wrong cabin and unsuccessfully hiding from the two women living there, Moby becomes further dejected when he feels out of place accompanying his shipmates and their girlfriends to the beach. The unwanted Moby decides to return to the mainland. Having to wait half an hour for the next ship, Moby's luck changes when he meets Jane whose motorboat is not working. In fixing the engine, Moby is thrown in the water with Jane taking Moby to her father's yacht where his uniform can dry out. Jane invites Moby to a party with Jane's father the Commodore inviting Moby to sail with them to the mainland. On the way to the party Jane's boat fails again with both being thrown into the water as the boat comes to life and sails off without them. Moby gets his confidence back by saving Jane who cannot swim and using his navigation skills to get them back to safety in Avalon. Jane's grateful father throws a party for Moby where he turns the tables on his scheming shipmates when the sheriff, who had arrested Joe and Skip turn them over to Moby where he has them fanning him and Jane in the manner of slaves.The Stooges are private detectives that are hired to track down a kidnapped girl name Mary Bopper , daughter of George B. Bopper. They decide to trace Bopper back to where she was last seen, which leads them to mad scientist Dr. Jeckyl  and his assistant, Mr. Hyde ([[Tom Kennedy . There is also a gorilla kept imprisoned in the house for experimental purposes. The Stooges arrive to rescue the kidnapped girl disguised as door-to door pie salesmen.Bob, a middle-aged gambler and ex-con living in the Montmartre district of Paris, experiences a run of bad luck that leaves him nearly broke. Bob is a gentleman with scruples, well liked in the demi-monde community. He has unsuccessfully tried to rob a bank in the past, and has spent time in prison. He hears through a croupier friend that the Deauville Casino holds undreamed-of quantities of cash, vulnerable in the early morning hours. Bob develops a complicated scheme to steal it, bringing in a tough but naive young protégé and an ace safecracker into his scheme, along with a few other underworld characters. Bob also becomes involved with a young woman, Anne, who does not have her own place and stays with any man who can take her off the streets. Later, Anne begins spending time with Bob's friend and partner-in-crime, Paolo. Meanwhile, Paolo trusts Anne and tells her the plot in which he is involved with Bob. However, in the evening of the planned heist, Anne betrays the gang to a pimp turned informant, Marc, without realizing that it was supposed to be a secret. Marc tips the possibility of a scheme masterminded by Bob to Inspector Ledru of the local police, whom Bob once saved from death. However, Marc, is gunned down by Paulo just as he is about to confirm the specifics. Ledru searches Bob's Montmartre haunts to warn him off the plan - in vain. At the casino, Bob fails to connect with his inside man, a croupier who has spilled the plan with his wife, who's also tipped off Ledru. An hours-long winning streak preoccupies Bob, a dance with Lady Luck he has waited for all his life. Suddenly, Bob is startled to realize it is the appointed hour of 5:00 PM, hurriedly cashes in a literal fortune in chips, and exits the casino floor. Just as his gang arrives, Ledru and the police descend, triggering a shooting spree. Bob rushes out of the casino in time to cradle his dying protégé, Paolo, then is arrested and handcuffed as casino employees trundle out stack upon stack of winnings and place them in the trunk of Inspector Ledru's car. It is strongly implied that his lucky streak will hold, and he will get off with little or no jail time. Possibly, he quips, he will sue the police for damages—while the beautiful Anne waits for him at his apartment.TV writer Greg Whitcomb did his military service heroically but now has settled into everyday life with a young wife, Katy. A letter from the war department arrives that Katy believes is calling Greg back to active duty from the Air Force reserve, but she hides it during a party celebrating their wedding anniversary. A captain attending the party, Barney Sloan, casually calls Greg an "old-timer," offending him. Greg gets drunk and passes out. His pride stung, Greg is willing to return to duty once he learns of the letter, so Katy, a former Air Force officer herself, decides to re-enlist so they can stay together. Trouble is, Greg flunks his physical exam due to a bad knee. Katy is shipped to a base in Hawaii without him. Female neighbors keep suggesting Katy will be lonely and surrounded by handsome servicemen, so Greg flies to Honolulu to join her. He ends up spending hours with the wives, a situation their husbands don't appreciate. Greg decides to sabotage Katy's career so she can get a discharge. His stunt backfires, but because Greg's knee has healed, he is now called back to duty. Which would be fine, except Katy now needs to be honorably discharged and sent home because she is pregnant.A group of aspiring actors are putting together a musical revue called Love Happy. Harpo, the troupe's mascot, keeps the actors from starving by stealing canned goods from a local grocer. On one occasion, he accidentally grabs a sardine can containing the stolen Romanoff diamonds. As a result, Harpo becomes the target of adventuress Madame Egilichi  and her stooges (Melville Cooper, Raymond Burr, [[Bruce Gordon .Having survived being riddled with bullets at the end of The Creature from the Black Lagoon, the Gill-man is captured and sent to the Ocean Harbor Oceanarium in Florida, where he is studied by animal psychologist Professor Clete Ferguson and ichthyology student Helen Dobson. Helen and Clete quickly begin to fall in love, much to the chagrin of Joe Hayes, the Gill-man's keeper. The Gill-man takes an instant liking to Helen, which severely hampers Professor Ferguson's efforts to communicate with him. Ultimately, the Gill-man escapes from his tank, killing Joe in the process, and flees to the open ocean. Unable to stop thinking about Helen, he soon begins to stalk her and Ferguson, ultimately abducting her from a seaside restaurant where the two are at a party. Clete tries to give chase, but the Gill-man escapes to the water with his captive. Clete and the local law enforcement must now try to track down Helen and her amphibious abductor.Benny , Monk  and Matthew  are three small-time crooks trying to escape a police dragnet in New York City. After hiding in a church and taking minister's suits and dog collars, they emerge, dressed as priests, and find shelter in an abandoned Bowery mission. When beat cops mistake them for real ministers sent to restore the soup kitchen, they're forced to go along with repairs, holding services and feeding the poor. They have to decide whether to stay, steal the mission money and run; or, change their lives. Like the Priest allowing Jean Valjean to escape, in Les Misérables, it's the first time they've been treated with respect, and had a chance to do some good work, for awhile. The question is whether the police detectives or junior priests will turn them in before they even have a chance.Martian invader, Mota, attempts to conquer the Earth as Mars is worried about its use of new atomic technology. They consider that it would be much safer, and beneficial for both Earth and Mars, if the Martians were in charge. Mota, having been shot down by an experimental ray gun, blackmails American scientist, and former Nazi, Dr Bryant into assisting him and hires some criminals to be his henchmen. Kent Fowler, the private pilot who shot down Mota with Dr Bryant's ray gun, gets caught up in these events while working security for atomic industrial sites.David Burke  is a former policeman who was ruined when he refused to cooperate with state crime investigators. He has asked hard-bitten, racist, ex-con Earl Slater  to help him rob an upstate bank, promising him $50,000 if the robbery is successful. Burke also recruits Johnny Ingram , a nightclub entertainer who doesn’t want the job but who is addicted to gambling and is in debt. Slater, who is supported by his girlfriend, Lorry , finds out Ingram is black and refuses the job. Later, he realizes that he needs the money, and joins Ingram and Burke in the enterprise. Tensions between Ingram and Slater increase as they near completion of the crime. Burke is seen by a police officer leaving the scene of the raid, and is mortally wounded in the ensuing shootout with local police, so he commits suicide by shooting himself. Slater is cavalier about the death of Burke, which incenses Ingram. Ingram and Slater escape and run into a nearby fuel storage depot. They chase after each other on the top of the fuel tanks. They exchange gunfire and ignite the fuel tanks and cause an large explosion. Afterwards, their corpses are indistinguishable.Police Lt. Leonard Diamond is on a personal crusade to bring down sadistic gangster Mr. Brown. He's also dangerously obsessed with Brown's girlfriend, his captive lover. His main objective as a detective is to uncover who "Alicia" is but cannot immediately find out from Brown or his girl. Mr. Brown later captures Diamond against his will in a role reversal, grilling the Lieutenant under duress as Brown previously underwent a lie detector test in the police station. Brown's hoods get Diamond intoxicated against his will and attempt to frame him in front of his boss as an irresponsible drunk. However, Diamond's boss believes his truthful explanation and the investigation continues. Diamond next learns through one of Brown's past accomplices that Alicia was actually Brown's previous wife. He witnessed a fight they had on a boat off the coast of Portugal. The accomplice suspects that Alicia was murdered and then strapped to the boat's anchor and permanently submerged. However, he only knows that he never saw Alicia again-so it's not definite this is what actually happened. Diamond then inquisitions a Swede, Mr. Dryer, who was the skipper of that boat . Dryer denies involvement, then receives an anonymous phone call after Diamond has left. Suspecting he's now a target of a hit since the "caller" simmply hangs up, Mr. Dryer arms himself and leaves through the back door. However, this doesn't prevent him from being murdered within seconds after he closes the door. It turns out Brown was knowledgeable about Diamond's visit to Mr. Dryer, but his intent was not to kill but just to apprehend him. His accomplice Joe who was originally instructed not to arm himself tacitly admits "he had no other choice" and it becomes clear Joe went against Brown's prior instructions. When Diamond discovers Dryer's note in a lockbox referring to a ship's log , he returns to the antique store but finds that Brown is already waiting there for him. Brown knows what he's looking for but took the liberty to burn the ship's log since he now owns 100% of the antique store's inventory. Diamond then confronts Brown's girl who is lost in thought listening to a live performance of passionate classical piano music . He urges her to leave Brown but Susan says she can't do it. Diamond then admits he loves her, gives her a photo of Brown and Alicia together on the boat along with an unidentified man and promptly leaves. Susan has a change of heart and finally confronts Brown about his wife. Brown claims his wife is still alive in Sicily, Italy and now wants to come back to the States. However, he admits that Alicia effectively left him for "Grazzi"  whom she is "living with" in Sicily. Brown next orders a hit on Diamond, however his accomplices enter Diamond's apartment in the evening thinking he's in there. In fact his burlesque dancer girlfriend was coincidentally let in by the floor attendant  so she's murdered instead. The next morning Susan tells Diamond what's she's learned from Brown. But Diamond picks up on the fact that the updated "Sicilian photo" of Alicia Susan shows him has a telling error-snow is on the ground. This leads Diamond to some additional clues to now suspect Brown didn't kill Alicia but his boss Grazzi instead. A blow up of the "Sicilian photo" reveals a highway sign that leads Diamond to where Alicia lives. Diamond confronts "Anna Lee Jackson" there who breaks down when he shows her the past boat photo. Brown's right-hand man, the hard-of-hearing Joe McClure, plots with gangsters Fante and Mingo to overthrow Mr. Brown, but he ends up getting killed himself because Fante and Mingo just initially feigned their loyalty. McClure's hearing aid, in an earlier scene, is used to torture detective Diamond with amplified sound . Diamond later gets Susan to help recruit Alicia to incriminate Brown. They are successful in getting her consent for cooperation, but at the last second Brown himself shows up with a writ of habious corpus effectively preventing her to testify against her husband. Brown also arranges to give a big stash of "money" to Fante and Mingo while they are hiding out from the police, but the box turns out to be a bomb that apparently kills both of them. Brown then proceeds to kidnap Susan to prevent more incriminating evidence. Meanwhile, Diamond finds a witness that could finally nail the elusive gangster, Mingo, who initially survived the blast and confesses that Brown was behind it all. Alicia helps Diamond figure out where Brown was likely to take Susan to, the airport where Brown hopes to make a getaway plane. However, the plane doesn't show up and the film climaxes in a foggy airplane hangar shootout. The very last scene shows the famous silhouetted figures in the fog that is one of the iconic images in all of film noir.Café owner Mike Clancy is told by his doctor that he needs to take a rest in the mountains due to his asthma. A crooked real estate agent sells Mike an old house that once belonged to the widow of a gangster. Mike and the Bowery Boys head out to the house, and eventually find a large pile of money hidden inside. Pretty soon, old friends of the deceased gangster who once owned the house catch wind of the Boys' discovery, and decide to rob the place. To add to this madness, the Bowery Boys find the house to be supposedly inhabited by ghosts.The film is set in the early 1950s. The British Prime Minister, ([[Ronald Adam , is sent a letter by Professor Willingdon ([[Barry Jones , who works at Britain's Atomic weapons development facility, the Wallingford Research Centre, from which he has surreptitiously taken a nuclear warhead. It is a very explicit threat that Willingdon will destroy the centre of London in a week's time, at noon , unless the British government declares that it is to stop all stockpiling of nuclear warheads. Detective Superintendent Folland  of Scotland Yard's Special Branch is charged with tracking down Willingdon and stopping him. Arriving at the  Wallingford Research Centre , Folland's team find Willingdon missing, along with a nuclear bomb. Willingdon's assistant Lane  is recruited to help and they return to London to search for him. Willingdon, carrying his bomb in a Gladstone bag, finds lodgings with Mrs. Peckitt , but spooks her with his constant pacing around his room during the night. The following morning, he leaves early and seeing a 'wanted' poster with his face, disguises himself with a new coat and having his moustache shaved off. Folland's team plan for the worst and get Cabinet approval to evacuate London. Rumours begin to fly that another war is about to be declared, and the Prime Minister agrees to do a radio broadcast to try to quash these, and appeal to Willingdon to give himself up. The next day, Willingdon's daughter, Ann , turns up at Folland's office to demand some answers. Folland tells her all and asks her to stay and help - she may be the only person the professor will listen to. Mrs. Peckitt reports Willingdon to the police, thinking that he is a 'landlady murderer' reported in the paper, but a quick-thinking constable realises the description better matches Willingdon and a car is sent to check him. Unfortunately, Willingdon spots it on his way back to his lodgings and makes a quiet get-away. Driving back to their hotel from the police operations centre, Lane and Ann Willingdon spot the professor and try to catch him. An updated description is quickly circulated. That evening Willingdon bumps into 'Mrs' "Goldie" Phillips , she offers that he can buy her a drink, the two of them having met, by chance, earlier at a pawn brokers. Without any lodgings, Goldie offers him her 'spare' bed for the night. By this time, London is being evacuated and Willingdon decides to lie low. The troops have begun to search and Goldie's bedsit seems a good place to remain hidden. Willingdon is forced to hold Goldie hostage, fearing that if he didn't, she would inform the authorities of his location. The streets cleared, Willingdon makes his escape and finds his final refuge, a bomb blitzed church. The net steadily closes and Willingdon is finally found, praying. Lane, Ann and Folland arrive to try to talk the professor away from his bag. He panics, runs from the church, and is killed by an even more panicking soldier. With seconds to spare, Lane has the bomb defused.In 1868, Ethan Edwards  returns from the American Civil War, in which he fought for the Confederacy, to the home of his brother Aaron  in the wilderness of west Texas. Wrongdoing or legal trouble in Ethan's past is suggested by his three-year absence, a large quantity of gold coins in his possession, a Mexican revolutionary war medal that he gives to his young niece Debbie , and his refusal to take an oath of allegiance to the Texas Rangers, as well as Rev. Samuel Clayton mentioning that Ethan "fits a lot of descriptions". Shortly after Ethan's arrival, cattle belonging to his neighbor Lars Jorgensen  are stolen, and when Captain Samuel Clayton  leads Ethan and a group of Rangers to follow the trail, they discover that the theft was a ploy by Comanche to draw the men away from their families. When they return home, they find the Edwards homestead in flames; Aaron, his wife Martha ([[Dorothy Jordan , and their son Ben  dead; and Debbie and her older sister Lucy  abducted.  After a brief funeral, the men return to pursuing the Comanches. When they find their camp, Ethan recommends an open attack, in which the girls would be killed, but Clayton insists on sneaking in. The Rangers find the camp deserted, and when they continue their pursuit, the Indians almost catch them in a trap. The Rangers fend off the Indian attack, but with too few men to ensure victory, Clayton and the posse return home, leaving Ethan to continue his search for the girls with Lucy's fiancé Brad Jorgensen  and Debbie's adopted brother Martin Pawley . However, after Ethan finds Lucy brutally murdered and presumably raped in a canyon near the Comanche camp, Brad becomes enraged, rides wildly into the camp, and is killed. Ethan and Martin search until winter, when they lose the trail. When they return to the Jorgensen ranch, Martin is enthusiastically welcomed by the Jorgensens' daughter Laurie , and Ethan finds a letter waiting for him from a man named Futterman, who has information about Debbie. Ethan, who would rather travel alone, leaves without Martin the next morning, but Laurie provides Martin with a horse to catch up. At Futterman's  trading post, Ethan and Martin learn that Debbie has been taken by Scar ([[Henry Brandon , the chief of the Nawyecka band of Comanches. A year or more later, Laurie receives a letter from Martin describing the ongoing search. In reading the letter aloud, Laurie narrates the next few scenes, in which Ethan kills Futterman for trying to steal his money, Martin accidentally buys a Comanche wife, and the two men find part of Scar's tribe killed by soldiers.  After looking for Debbie at a military fort, Ethan and Martin go to New Mexico, where a Mexican man leads them to Scar. They find Debbie, now an adolescent , living as one of Scar's wives. When she meets with the men outside the camp, she says she has become a Comanche and asks them to leave without her. However, Ethan would rather see her dead than living as an Indian. He tries to shoot her, but Martin shields her with his body and a Comanche shoots Ethan with an arrow. Ethan and Martin escape to safety, where Martin saves Ethan by tending to his wound. Martin is furious at Ethan for attempting to kill Debbie and wishes him dead. "That'll be the day," Ethan replies. The men then return home.  Meanwhile, Charlie McCorry  has been courting Laurie in Martin's absence. Ethan and Martin arrive home just as Charlie and Laurie's wedding is about to begin. After a fistfight between Martin and Charlie, a nervous "Yankee" soldier, Lt. Greenhill , arrives with news that Ethan's half-crazy friend Mose Harper  knows where Scar is. Clayton leads his men to the Comanche camp, this time for a direct attack, but Martin is allowed to sneak in and rescue Debbie, who welcomes him. During the attack, Martin kills Scar and Ethan scalps him. When Ethan sees Debbie, Martin is unable to stop him from chasing her, but instead of killing her, Ethan carries her home. Once Debbie is safely with her family, and Martin is reunited with Laurie, Ethan walks away, alone, the cabin door closing on his receding image in one of the most famous and iconic closing scenes in film history.The Searchers Special, AMC TelevisionWhen a Japanese fishing boat is attacked by a flash of light near Odo Island, another ship is sent to investigate only to meet the same fate, with only a few surviving. On Odo Island, a village elder blames their poor fishing on a sea monster known as "Godzilla" and recalls that in earlier times native girls were sacrificed to appease the giant sea monster. Word gets out and a helicopter arrives on the island with curious, but skeptical, reporters. Frightened natives perform a night-time ceremony to keep the monster away. However, that night, while the natives sleep, a storm arrives and something else comes with it, bringing death and destruction. And a boy sees the cause during the midst of the destruction. The next day, witnesses arrive in Tokyo. Archeologist Kyohei Yamane suggests that investigators be sent to the island. On arrival, Yamane finds giant radioactive footprints, and a trilobite. When an alarm sounds, the villagers arm themselves with sticks and various weapons and run to the hills, only to be confronted by Godzilla, who is revealed to be an enormous reptilian creature. After a quick skirmish, the villagers run for safety and Godzilla heads to the ocean. Dr. Yamane returns to Tokyo to present his findings and concludes that Godzilla was unleashed by a nuclear explosion. Some want to conceal that fact, fearing international repercussions. Others say the truth must be revealed. They prevail and Godzilla's origins are announced to the public. Ships are sent with depth charges to kill the monster. When it that fails, Godzilla appears again, frightening patrons on a party boat, and causing nationwide panic. Officials appeal to Dr. Yamane for some way to kill the monster, but Yamane wants him kept alive and studied. Meanwhile, Emiko, Yamane's daughter, decides to break off her arranged engagement to Yamane's colleague, Daisuke Serizawa, because of her love for Hideto Ogata, a salvage ship captain. Before she can do that, Serizawa tells her about his secret experiment. He gives a small demonstration, using a fish tank in the lab. Shocked, Emiko is sworn to secrecy and never gets a chance to break off the engagement. That night Godzilla climbs from Tokyo Bay and attacks the city. Though the attack is over quickly, there is much death and destruction. The next morning, the army constructs a line of 40-meter electrical towers along the coast of Tokyo that will send 50,000 volts of electricity through Godzilla, should he appear again. Civilians are evacuated from the city and put into bomb shelters. As night falls, Godzilla does indeed attack again. He easily breaks through the electric fence, melting the wires with his atomic breath. A bombardment of shells from the army tanks has no effect. Godzilla continues his rampage until much of the city is destroyed and thousands of civilians are dead or wounded. Godzilla descends unscathed into Tokyo Bay, despite a squadron of fighter jets' last-ditch attack. The next morning finds Tokyo in ruins. Hospitals overflow with victims, including some with radiation poisoning. Emiko witnesses the devastation and tells Ogata about Serizawa's secret Oxygen Destroyer, a device that disintegrates oxygen atoms and organisms die of asphixiation. Thus, a new energy source he accidentally created. She hopes together they can persuade Serizawa to use it to stop Godzilla. When Serizawa realizes Emiko betrays his secret, he refuses, and Ogata and Serizawa fight and Ogata receives a minor head wound. As Emiko treats Ogata's wound, Serizawa apologizes, but he refuses to use the weapon on Godzilla, citing the public bedlam his weapon could cause. Then a newscast shows the devastation Godzilla has caused. Choirs of children are shown singing a hymn. Finally realizing this, Serizawa decides he will use the weapon only one time and then its secret must be destroyed for the good of humanity. He then burns all his papers and research. Emiko breaks down and cries when she sees this, as she understands that Serizawa is sacrificing his life's work and himself to stop Godzilla. A navy ship takes Ogata and Serizawa to plant the device in Tokyo Bay. They don diving gear and descend into the water, where they find Godzilla at rest. Ogata returns to the surface as Serizawa activates the device. Serizawa watches as Godzilla dies then tells Ogata to be with Emiko. He then cuts his own oxygen cord, sacrificing himself so his knowledge of the device cannot be used to harm mankind. A dying Godzilla surfaces, lets out a final roar, and sinks to the bottom, disintegrating until he is nothing but bones, and eventually, nothing. Although the monster is gone, those aboard ship are still grim. They do not know if the death of Godzilla is the end or the beginning of an apocalyptic era. Godzilla's death has come at a terrible price and Dr. Yamane believes that if mankind continues to test nuclear weapons, another Godzilla may appear.After a rooftop chase in which his latent acrophobia results in the death of a police officer, San Francisco detective John "Scottie" Ferguson retires, spending much of his time with his ex-fiancée Midge Wood. Scottie tries to gradually conquer his fear but Midge suggests another severe emotional shock may be the only cure. An acquaintance, Gavin Elster, asks Scottie to tail his wife, Madeleine, claiming she has been possessed; Scottie reluctantly agrees. The next day Scottie follows Madeleine to a florist where she secures a bouquet of flowers; next, she visits the grave of Carlotta Valdes; then she visits an art museum where she sits watching Portrait of Carlotta, a painting of a woman resembling her. Lastly, she enters the McKittrick Hotel, but when Scottie investigates, she is missing and the clerk insists she has not been there. Midge takes Scottie to a local history expert, who informs them Carlotta Valdes tragically committed suicide. Another visit with Gavin reveals Carlotta is Madeleine's great-grandmother, who Gavin fears is possessing Madeleine. Gavin also says Madeleine has no knowledge of Carlotta. Scottie tails Madeleine to Fort Point , where she suddenly leaps into San Francisco Bay. Scottie rescues Madeleine and takes her to his home. The meeting is tense and leads to a strange intimacy between them, but Madeleine quickly slips out when Scottie receives a phone call. The next day Scottie follows Madeleine to his own house, where she is hand-delivering a thank-you note to him for rescuing her, and they decide to spend the day together because Scottie fears Madeleine might attempt suicide again. The two travel to Muir Woods and then Cypress Point along 17-Mile Drive near Pebble Beach, where Madeleine, embarrassed from confessing that her dreams sound mad, runs to the ocean. Scottie chases after her and they embrace and kiss. Upon hearing the details of her nightmare, Scottie identifies the setting as Mission San Juan Bautista and takes Madeleine there, where they proclaim their love for each other. Madeleine suddenly runs into the church and up the bell tower. Scottie, halted on the steps by vertigo and paralyzing fear, watches as Madeleine plunges to her death. An inquest declares Madeleine's death a suicide, but Scottie feels ashamed that his weakness rendered him incapable of preventing someone's death. Gavin does not fault Scottie, but in the following weeks Scottie becomes depressed. While undergoing treatment in a sanatorium, he becomes mute, haunted by vivid nightmares. Although Midge visits, his condition remains unchanged. After release, Scottie haunts the places that Madeleine visited, often imagining that he sees her. One day, he spots a woman who reminds him of Madeleine, despite the woman's less elegant dress and heavier makeup. Scottie follows the woman to her hotel room, where she identifies herself as Judy Barton from Kansas. Though initially suspicious and defensive, Judy eventually agrees to join Scottie for dinner. After Scottie leaves, Judy has a flashback revealing that she was, in fact, the woman known as "Madeleine", but she is not Gavin's wife. Judy prepares to leave and writes a confession letter to Scottie explaining that she was an accomplice to the real Madeleine Elster's murder by Gavin, and how Gavin had taken advantage of Scottie's acrophobia. She rips up the letter and decides to continue the charade because of her love for Scottie. Scottie remains obsessed by his memory of "Madeleine" and their similarities. He transforms an initially unwilling Judy until she once more resembles Madeleine. Judy agrees to change on the chance that they may finally find happiness together. But Scottie realizes the truth when Judy wears a unique necklace that he remembered from the portrait of Carlotta Valdes. Instead of dinner, Scottie insists on taking Judy to the Mission San Juan Bautista. There, he reveals that he wants to re-enact the event that led to his madness, admitting that he now knows Madeleine and Judy are the same. Scottie forces her up the bell tower and angrily presses Judy to admit her deceit. Scottie reaches the top, conquering his acrophobia at last. Judy confesses that Gavin had hired her to pose as a possessed Madeleine; Gavin faked the suicide by tossing the body of his already-murdered wife from the bell tower. Judy pleads to Scottie to forgive her because she loves him. The two embrace when a nun, in shadow, emerges from the trapdoor; startled, Judy steps backward and falls to her death. Scottie stands on the narrow ledge while the nun rings the mission bell.A spaceship from a previously unknown planet lands in the Scottish moors, bringing an alien creature to earth near the observatory of Professor Elliot , just days before the planet will pass closest to the earth. When the professor and his friend, American reporter John Lawrence , discover the creature, they help it when it is in distress and try to communicate with it, but fail. They leave, and the alien follows them home. A colleague of the professor, the unscrupulous and ambitious scientist Dr. Mears , discovers how to communicate with the creature and tries to get from it by force the formula for the metal the spaceship is made of. He shuts off the alien's breathing apparatus and leaves it for dead, telling the professor that communication was hopeless. Soon, Lawrence discovers that the alien is gone, as is the professor's daughter, Enid . Tommy, the village constable , reports that others from the village are missing as well. Lawrence takes the constable to the site where the spaceship has been, but it is no longer there. With more people now missing &ndash; including Mears &ndash; the phone lines dead and the village in a panic, they get word to Scotland Yard by using a heliograph to contact a passing freighter. When an Inspector  and sergeant fly in and are briefed on the situation, it is decided that the military must destroy the spaceship. Lawrence objects that doing so will also kill the people who are under the alien's control. With the mysterious planet due to reach its closest distance to the earth at midnight, Lawrence is given until 11:00 to rescue them. He sneaks up to the ship, and learns from Mears that the alien intends the ship to become a wireless relay station in advance of an invasion from its home planet, which is dying. Lawrence orders the enthralled villagers to leave and attacks the alien, shutting off its breathing apparatus, then escapes with Enid and the professor. Mears, however, returns to the ship and is killed when the military destroys the ship, just before the planet approaches and then recedes back into outer space.The action takes place in ancient Rome from AD 64–68, a period after Emperor Claudius' illustrious and powerful reign, during which the new corrupt and destructive Emperor Nero ascends to power and eventually threatens to destroy Rome's previous peaceful order.The main subject is the conflict between Christianity and the corruption of the Roman Empire, especially in the last period of the Julio-Claudian line. The characters and events depicted are a mixture of actual historical figures and situations and fictionalized ones. The film tells the story of a Roman military commander, Marcus Vinicius ([[Robert Taylor , who is also the legate of the XIV Gemina, returning from the wars, who falls in love with a devout Christian, Lygia , and slowly becomes intrigued by her religion. Their love story is told against the broader historical background of early Christianity and its persecution by Nero . Though she grew up Roman as the adopted daughter of a retired general, Aulus Plautius , Lygia is technically a hostage of Rome. Marcus persuades Nero to give her to him for services rendered. Lygia resents this, but still falls in love with Marcus. Meanwhile, Nero's atrocities become increasingly more outrageous and his acts more insane. When he burns Rome and blames the Christians, Marcus goes off to save Lygia and her family. Nero captures them and all the Christians, and condemns them to be killed in the arena. However, Marcus' uncle, Petronius , Nero's most trusted advisor, warns that the Christians will be made martyrs and, tired of Nero's insanity and suspecting that he might become a victim of his antics too, commits suicide by slitting his wrists, sending Nero a farewell letter in which he finally communicates his derisive opinions he had never been able to tell the emperor in fear of his own life. Marcus is arrested for trying to save Lygia. In prison, Peter , who has also been arrested after returning to Rome upon a sign of the Lord, marries the couple; eventually, he is crucified upside-down as an ironic twist at the whim of Nero's guard. Poppaea , Nero's wife, who lusts after Marcus, devises a diabolical revenge for his rejection of her. Lygia is tied to a wooden stake in the arena. A wild bull is also placed there, and Lygia's bodyguard giant, Ursus  must try to kill it with his bare hands, otherwise Lygia will be gored to death. Marcus is tied to the spectator's box and forced to watch, much to the horror of his officers, who also attend the spectacle. When all seems hopeless, Ursus is able to break the bull's neck. Hugely impressed by Ursus' courage, the crowd exhorts Nero to spare them, which the emperor is not willing to do. However, Nero's four other retainers Seneca ([[Nicholas Hannen , architect Phaon , Lucan , and Terpnos  vouch for the mob's demands by putting their thumbs up as well. Marcus then breaks free of his bonds, leaps into the arena, frees Lygia with the help of his loyal troops from his legion, and announces that General Galba is at that moment marching on Rome, intent on replacing Nero. The crowd, now firmly believing that Nero, and not the Christians, is responsible for the burning of Rome, revolts. Nero flees to his palace, where he strangles Poppaea to death, blaming her for attempting to scapegoat the Christians. Then Acte , a palace slave who was once in unrequited love with Nero, appears and offers to aid him in ending his own life before the mob storms the palace. The cowardly Nero cannot bring himself to do it, so Acte drives the dagger into his chest, weeping over his demise. Marcus, Lygia and Ursus are now free and leave Rome. By the roadside, Peter's crook, which he had left behind when he returned to Rome, has miraculously sprouted flowers. The radiant light intones, "I am the way, the truth, and the life."A children television host chooses an audience member to test a phony rocket. He chooses Woody, who successfully gets prizes for landing it safely. He earns a life supply of Zippo Whip, a scooter, a toy laser gun, and a space helmet. Woody goes off in the city shooting his gun at people. The citizens are horrified of Woody, thinking he is a genuine "spaceman". That afternoon, scientists study Woody the "spaceman". The scientist takes a feather from Woody's tail and says: "The spaceman has feathers?" The scientist then takes shockers and electrifies Woody. The second time The scientist tries to shock him,he kicks the shockers back on the scientist. The scientists says: "the spaceman's crazy!!!" Woody is sent to Mars and the real aliens think he is a spaceman. Woody is put in a rocket and he then says: "Here we go again folks!"Jim Carmody  is an American pilot in World War II. After crashing his plane in China, he was rescued by a local warlord, General Yang , and became his trusted adviser. However, after one of the general's soldiers kills a priest, Father O'Shea, Carmody decides to desert. He masquerades as the dead priest and manages to escape to a remote mountain village. There he meets missionaries Beryl  and David Sigman . Still posing as the priest, he falls in love with attractive mission nurse Anne Scott , who feels ashamed because she is also attracted to him. Carmody writes to the bishop, confessing that he is an impostor. Then General Yang arrives, insisting that Carmody rejoin his army or else he will burn down the village. Carmody proposes a game of dice, wagering years of service against his freedom and the safety of the villagers.The tiny  European Duchy of Grand Fenwick, supposedly located in the Alps between Switzerland and France, proudly retains a pre-industrial economy, dependent almost entirely on making Pinot Grand Fenwick wine. However, an American winery makes a knockoff version, "Pinot Grand Enwick", putting the country on the verge of bankruptcy. The prime minister decides that their only course of action is to declare war on the United States. Expecting a quick and total defeat (since their standing army is tiny and equipped with [[bow , the country confidently expects to rebuild itself through the generous largesse that the United States bestows on all its vanquished enemies . Instead, the Duchy defeats the mighty superpower, purely by accident. Landing in New York City, almost completely deserted above ground because of a city-wide disaster drill, the Duchy's invading "army"  wanders to a top secret government lab and unintentionally captures the "Q-bomb"  and its maker, Dr. Kokintz. The invaders from Fenwick are sighted by a Civil Defense Squad and are immediately taken to be "men from Mars" when their mail armor is mistaken for reptilian skin. The Secretary of Defense pieces together what has happened  and is both ashamed and astonished that the United States was unaware that it had been at war for two months. With the most powerful bomb in the world now in the smallest country in the world, other countries are quick to react, with the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom offering their support. With the world at the tiny country's mercy, Duchess Gloriana, the leader of Grand Fenwick, lists her terms: all the nuclear weapons of the powerful nations must go through an inspection by impartial scientists and the "Tiny Twenty"  should be formed, a group of twenty small nations so that small nations can get their voices heard as well as large ones. Soon Duchess Gloriana and Tully Bascomb get married, and during the wedding Dr. Kokintz discovers that the bomb is a dud and that the bomb Grand Fenwick used to threaten the world into obedience never had any power whatsoever. However, Dr. Kokintz decides to keep that fact to himself considering that the pretense still furthers the cause of world peace.Ivo Kern  is a former attorney who had once participated in Nazi atrocities, and is now selling his expertise to German communists to kidnap and transport certain West Germans to the eastern bloc. Although Kern desires to relocate to the West he is hampered by West German suspicions and his criminal past. Nevertheless, he agrees to a final kidnapping venture that fails, forcing his employer to take over and abduct Briton Susanne Mallison  by mistake. Kern had earlier feigned a romance with Mallison as a means to seize his kidnapping target. The abduction of Mallison presents Kern with an opportunity to both return the unfortunate victim to the West and impress western authorities of his atonement. Despite Kern's selfish and darkened facade, Mallison still falls in love with the defector. She tells him that she can see humanity deep inside the former attorney who had once studied to defend the innocent and the 'rights of man.' This glimpse also appears to a young East Berlin boy who assists Kern and Mallison in their attempt to escape, as he follows Kern everywhere and the boy is treated with kindness. Kern almost admits his affection for Mallison on one occasion but he directs the conversation back to his sordid past and the escape attempt. Ultimately, as Kern and Mallison are only a few feet from the Berlin gate while hidden in the back of a truck, their escape goes awry. Kern distracts the border guards as he runs from the vehicle, shouting at Mallison to hurry into the West. As her truck crosses the neutral zone and she reaches back for Kern, he is gunned down by the guards, and in doing so he gives his life to save hers.A violent con, Vincent Canelli , escapes prison on the night of his execution. With the help of a phony newspaper reporter and Canelli's girlfriend, the con takes along five hostages including a priest. Another inmate, Peter Manning, is taken along because Canelli wants the money Manning hid before going to jail. Manning is injured badly in the escape and leaves a bloody trail. The gang ends up at a hideout where they're surrounded by police. Canelli threatens to kill hostages if he's not given safe passage and murders the priest to make his point. Manning is horrified and ends up killing Canelli and giving himself and the others up to police.Charlie Lupo is a gangster who runs the New York branch of a crime syndicate. He is a widower with a grown daughter, Kathy and a new lover, Iris. Hit man Nick Magellan of the Chicago mob impresses Lupo, who hires Magellan to be his bodyguard. They form a friendship and Kathy is attracted to Nick, but he resists her advances. When a political lobbyist interferes with the syndicate's plans and needs to be eliminated, Lupo arranges for three men to handle it. But they leave too many clues and need to be eliminated, a task Lupo turns over to Nick. Nick quickly dispatches two of the targets, but a third flees and rats out Lupo to the cops. While hiding out, Lupo's unhappy daughter Kathy gets drunk and is killed in a car crash. Lupo's heart is no longer in his work and he decides to cooperate with the authories, so the syndicate orders Nick to get rid of his friend. Nick obeys orders, killing Lupo, but then is eliminated himself.United States Marshal Andrew Barclay  arranges the escape of outlaw Tom Tanner  in order to locate the $250,000 in gold stolen by Tanner in stagecoach robbery. Tanner notices he's being followed by Barclay, whose appearance suggests he is a greenhorn. Tanner ambushes Barclay and forces him to trade clothes and accompany him to a bank, where Tanner retrieves an envelope containing a map from a safe deposit box showing the location of the stolen gold. On the road, Tanner and Barclay are stopped by two brothers, Jeff and Bart, who pull their guns and demand the map. To Tanner's surprise, Barclay disarms the brothers and takes their horses. Later he explains that he is a fugitive just like Tanner and proposes that they work together as a team. That night, while Barclay is asleep, Tanner rides on without him. The next day, Barclay stops at a ranch owned by beautiful Karen Galt  and trades his lame horse for a fresh one. He continues on to the nearby town of Twin Forks, which is run by Karen's father, Edward Galt . At the local saloon, Barclay sees Tanner who pretends not to know him. Galt watches their exchange and later questions Barclay about Tanner's stolen gold, which was never discovered following the robbery. When Barclay denies knowing Tanner, Galt orders his henchmen to beat him up. Later that night, Tanner kills an intruder in his room. In an effort to force Tanner to reveal the location of the gold, Galt sets him up, making it look like cold-blooded murder rather than self defense. After being taken to jail, Tanner escapes with the help of Barclay after agreeing to share of the gold. The two men ride out to the old Galt ranch, now used as a pasture for sick horses. When Karen discovers them hiding there, Barclay takes her aside and reveals that he is in fact a U.S. Marshal. Meanwhile, Galt recognizes the escape horses used by Tanner and Barclay as belonging to his ranch. Later he questions his daughter about them, and she reveals Barclay's secret, unaware that her father is after the gold himself. When Karen overhears Galt plotting with his henchmen, however, she realizes that Barclay's life is in danger and rides to the hideout to warn him. One of Galt's men follows her, however, and summons the others to the old Galt ranch. When they arrive, Karen meets them with gunfire, which gives Barclay and Tanner a head start on their escape. Galt catches up with his daughter and has her put in custody while he and the others track Barclay and Tanner to an old mine shaft where Tanner has hidden the stolen gold. During the ensuing gunfight, Galt and his men are killed. Barclay reveals that Tanner was allowed to escape so that the gold could be retrieved. When the mine shaft caves in, Barclay overcomes Tanner and takes his prisoner back to jail. Karen knows he will return to her because he has left his horse in her care.The argument of the film concerns Yukihiko Tachibana , an ex-convict trying to begin a life after he is released from prison. Unable to forget the rape and death of his girlfriend, he calls for revenge against a crime syndicate, while resisting the urge to kill again. Meanwhile, the district attorney, Prosecutor Karita  and his men try to build a case against a local crime syndicate.The film begins at the end of World War II and follows an American soldier  living in Germany during its post-war reconstruction. The title is the German word for "forbidden," and refers to the taboo nature of his relationship with a German woman ([[Susan Cummings  who eventually becomes his wife. Her younger brother  refuses to accept Germany's defeat and joins a guerilla group called the Werwolf.Frankie Machine  is released from prison with a set of drums and a new outlook on life. A heroin addict, Frankie became clean in prison. On the outside, he greets friends and acquaintances. Sparrow , who runs a con selling homeless dogs, clings to him like a young brother, but Schwiefka ([[Robert Strauss , whom Frankie used to deal for in his illegal card game, has more sinister reasons for welcoming him back, as does Louis , Machine's former heroin dealer. Frankie sees his wife Zosh , who is supposedly wheelchair-bound, but secretly fully recovered, after a car crash some years ago. Zosh smothers her husband and hinders his attempt to make something of himself. He thinks he has what it takes to play drums for a big band. While calling to make an appointment, he bumps into an old flame, Molly . Frankie soon gets himself a tryout and asks Sparrow to get him a new suit, but the suit is a stolen one and he ends up back in a cell. Schwiefka offers to pay the bail. Frankie refuses, but soon changes his mind when the sight of a drug addict on the edge becomes too much for him. Now, to repay the debt, he must deal for Schwiefka again. Louis is trying to hook him on heroin again, and with no job and Zosh to please, pressure is building from all directions. Soon Frankie succumbs and is back on drugs and dealing marathon, all-night, card games for Schwiefka. He gets a tryout as a drummer, but spends 24 hours straight dealing a poker game. Desperately needing a fix, Frankie follows Louis home, attacks him, ransacks his house, but can't find his stash of heroin. At the audition, with withdrawal coming on, Frankie can't keep the beat and ruins his chance of landing the drumming job. When Louis goes to see Zosh to try to find him, Louis discovers that Zosh has been faking her paralysis and can walk. Zosh, scared of being found out, accidentally pushes him over the railing of the stairwell to his death, but things backfire when Frankie is sought for murder. Initially not realizing he is a suspect in Louie's death, Frankie goes to Molly hoping to get money for a fix. After learning the police are looking for him, Molly convinces Frankie that he must go cold turkey if he is to stand a chance with the police. Frankie agrees and is locked in Molly's apartment where he goes through a grueling withdrawal to clear the drugs from his body. Finally clean again, he tells Zosh he is going to leave her, start anew and stand trial. In her desperation, Zosh once again gives herself away, standing up in front of Frankie and the police. She runs, but can get no further than the outside balcony. Trapped, she blows the whistle and throws herself off the balcony to her death. An ambulance then arrives to take Zosh to the hospital and drives away while Frankie watches in dismay. He then walks away with Molly.The members of a gang, especially Sid , grow impatient as their incompetent leader, Fingers , botches the robbery of a fur store, the latest in a series of disasters. Fingers then comes up with the idea of robbing businessman William Gordon . Gordon bluffs them into believing the police are on their way. Fingers refuses to give up, plotting to kidnap Gordon's daughter. However, he errs yet again and ends up with Gordon's meek wife Lucy  instead. Thinking she will do just as well, Fingers demands £25,000 ransom for her safe return. To his surprise, Gordon gleefully refuses. The philanderer has been carrying on an affair with his secretary and would like nothing better than to be rid of his dowdy wife. Fingers desperately lowers his price over and over again, finally offering to give her back for a mere £200, but is turned down. When Lucy learns of this, her love for her husband is extinguished. She decides to get revenge and soon takes charge of the gang . Knowing of Gordon's tax dispute with the Inland Revenue and his distrust of banks, she figures out where he has hidden much of his money. She leads the gangsters in stealing the cash and, for good measure, the furs and jewelry Gordon had lavished on his mistress, taking half of the proceeds for her share. On leaving Gordon's house through the bedroom window a lit cigarette is left, which unintentionally burns the house down. Gordon returns thinking his money is burning and repeated jumps into the burning building. By coincidence, the next day, the newspapers report a gruesome murder, just like the one Fingers had threatened. Gordon jumps to the wrong conclusion, and Lucy makes him pay some more for his mistake. She has Sid and Fingers impersonate policemen investigating her disappearance. Fingers extorts most of the rest of Gordon's ready cash in exchange for letting the matter drop. When a real Scotland Yard inspector shows up soon after, Gordon loses his temper and raises suspicions of murder. Desperate, he decides to flee the country. Fingers' ex-stripper girlfriend offers to provide a forged passport. He agrees to meet her later, after visiting his mother. Lucy guesses that he is going there to pick up a final stash of money. The gang show up and find him with a suitcase. When the police come to question Gordon further, Fingers takes the suitcase  and leaves, Gordon being too afraid to raise a fuss. Then Lucy walks in on her now-penniless husband. Fingers and his gang decide to keep all of this last windfall and not split it with Lucy, but as they drive away, the suitcase pops open unnoticed and the money is scattered on the road.The film starts with Baron Victor Frankenstein  in prison awaiting execution for murder, where he tells the story of his life to a priest. The story begins in his youth when his father's death results in his succeeding to the Frankenstein estate. He is mentored by a man named Paul Krempe ([[Robert Urquhart  and, as Victor ages, the two begin to collaborate on scientific experiments. One night, after a successful experiment in which they bring a dead dog back to life, Victor suggests that they create a human life from scratch. Krempe assists Victor at first, but eventually withdraws, unable to tolerate the continued scavenging of human remains. The body parts of Frankenstein's monster are assembled from a corpse found swinging on a gallows and both hands and eyes purchased from charnel house workers. For the brain, Victor seeks out an aging and distinguished professor so that the monster can have a sharp mind and the accumulation of a lifetime of knowledge. He invites the professor to his house in the guise of a friendly visit, but subsequently pushes him off the top of a straircase, killing him in what appears to others to be an accident. After the professor is buried, Victor proceeds to the vault, but Krempe finds him there and the brain is damaged in the ensuing scuffle. With all of the parts assembled , Frankenstein finally brings life to the monster . Unfortunately, the creature Frankenstein creates does not have the professor's intelligence and is both violent and psychotic. Frankenstein locks the creature up, but it escapes and kills an old blind man it encounters in the woods. Victor and Krempe hunt it down, shoot it, and bury it in the woods. After Krempe leaves town, Frankenstein digs up and revives the creature. He uses it to murder his maid, Justine , when she threatens to tell the authorities about his strange experiments. Eventually, however, the creature escapes again and threatens Victor's bride, Elizabeth . Victor again pursues it, and this time burns it with a lantern, causing it to fall into a bath of acid. Its body is completely dissolved, leaving no proof that it ever existed and Victor is imprisoned for Justine's death. He implores the returning Krempe to testify to the priest and his gaolers that it was the creature that killed Justine, but Krempe refuses and Frankenstein is led away to be executed. The viewer is left uncertain whether Frankenstein's story is true or simply the ravings of a homicidal lunatic.Filmed in London, the story concerns the feeding of misinformation to German Intelligence about the exact location of the D-Day landings in 1944. Captain Bill Ranson  and Major Julien Howard  are two allied intelligence officers posing as documentary film makers in the occupied Low Countries. Their concerns centre on the credentials of Rolande Hertog , a new recruit to the intelligence service recently arrived from Holland.Count Five and Die - Trailer - Cast - Showtimes - The New York TimesA simple man realizes that he looks like a criminal named "Drakos". The police are after him and he hides in a night club. Day by day, he identifies himself with "Drakos".In 1876, the North-West Mounted Police send Constable Duncan MacDonald  and a blackmailed Blackfoot scout  to get the Cree to sign Treaty 6 with The Crown. In addition to negotiating with the Cree, MacDonald of the Mounted rescues white hostages (Robert Horton and [[Penny Edwards  arrests a murderer, and adopts a Cree son .Test pilot Bruce Barton  is missing and his girl friend, Susan Winter  organizes a search party, sent out in the jungles of Mexico. The team of scientist Russ Bradford ([[James Craig , mining expert Martin "Marty" Melville  and pilot Lee Brand  fly into an unknown territory. While searching the area, however, they uncover giant mutated earth animals such as giant snakes and lizards, behemoth bugs, oversized mammals. More importantly, they encounter a mutated 50-ft tall, one-eyed human monster who became disfigured due to a exposure to radioactivity from massive radium deposits in the area. He kills Melville but appears to recognize the girl. When the cyclops tries to prevent the rest of the group from flying to safety, he is gravely wounded, and dies.The film begins with two bedraggled peasants, Tahei and Matashichi , escaping the aftermath of a battle en route to the Hayakawa country where they lived, but later captured and forced into slavery. After an uprising in the slave compound, Tahei and Matashichi escape and settle near a river, where they find gold belonging to the Daimyo for whom they had fought. They thereafter travel with General Rokurota Makabe , escorting Princess Yuki Akizuki ([[Misa Uehara  and what remains of her family's gold to a secret territory. In order to keep her identity secret, Yuki poses as a mute. During the mission, the peasants impede it and sometimes try to seize the gold. They are later joined by a farmer’s daughter , whom they acquire from a slave-trader. Eventually, they are captured and held by Rokurota's rival; but the latter unexpectedly sides with the Princess and Rokurota. The peasants stumble upon the gold, but are later captured; whereupon Rokurota explains Yuki's true identity, and states that all of the gold has been used to restore her family's domain. The peasants are then dispatched, taking a single ryō. In the final scene, Tahei gives this to Matashichi to protect; but Matashichi allows Tahei to keep it.A group of hustlers take a man for $5000 in a poker game. When the man ends up killing himself, the heat is put on the gamblers in the game. The dead man's vengeful brother begins picking off the gamblers one by one.In 1965, a series of mysterious and devastating incidents are happening on Earth. These incidents range from a railroad bridge levitated off the ground causing a train wreck in Japan; an ocean liner lifted out of the Panama Canal by a waterspout, destroying it; severe flooding in Venice, Italy; and the destruction of the J-SS3 space station. An international meeting is called at the Space Research Center in Japan. Major Ichiro Katsumiya, Professor Adachi and Dr. Richardson open the conference and describe the disasters, adding that the survivors suffered from extreme frostbite. Dr. Richardson theorizes that some unknown force lowered the temperatures of the objects so as to lower the Earth's gravitational pull: thus making the objects easier to lift, regardless of their size and weight. Katsumiya determines that such an action could only be accomplished by a force beyond the earth. Dr. Ahmed, an Iranian delegate at the meeting reacts as though suffering from a severe headache and slips away. Ahmed walks outside to a courtyard in a daze. Etsuko sees him and watches in horror as he is enveloped in a red light coming from the sky. Astronaut Iwomura comes in and Etsuko tells him what happened but Ahmed is nowhere to be seen. Back at the conference, it is believed that aliens might be behind the disasters and it's suggested that the Earth be prepared militarily. Dr. Ahmed appears and tries to sabotage the heat ray experiments held at the meeting. He is caught before completing his mission. He briefly takes Etsuko hostage and warns them that the Earth will soon become a colony of the planet, Natal. Ahmed's hand is injured and he makes a run for it. However, a Natalian saucer appears near the center and vaporizes him, but forensics find a tiny radio transmitter that was put in him. The transmissions locate the suspect aliens on the moon. The U.N. decides to launch two rocket ships, called SPIPs, to the Moon on a reconnaissance mission. En route, both ships are attacked by remotely-controlled meteors called 'space torpedoes'. Iwomura, a member of SPIP-1, is also under mind control by the aliens. He is caught trying to disable the rocket's weapons and is tied up. Both SPIPs avoid the meteors and are given a warning by the Natals not to land on the moon, but it is ignored. Once the rockets land on the moon, the two teams look for the alien base in lunar rovers. Meanwhile Iwomura has untied himself and blown up SPIP-1. They find a cave on foot and locate the Natals' base in a deep crater. Etsuko is temporarily captured by the Natalians but is saved by Katsumiya. A beam weapon battle erupts as the teams attack the base. The Natal base is destroyed which frees Iwomura of the aliens' mind control. Feeling guilty, Iwomura stays behind to give covering fire. He dies, but SPIP-2 escapes. Back on Earth, the world prepares for a final conflict against the Natalians. Scout Ships and Atomic Heat Cannons are built to battle the invasion fleet. Eventually, the Natal saucers and their mother ship approach the earth. Squadrons of Scout Ships are sent up into space and have a massive dogfight with them. The Natal Mother ship sends space torpedoes that hit New York and San Francisco. The mother ship tears up Tokyo with its anti-gravity beam. The remaining saucers and mother ship advance on the Space Research Center. The Atomic Heat Cannons finally destroy the mother ship and the Earth is saved.Mark Christopher  is a successful thirty-five-year-old Hollywood screenwriter who has suffered from partial writer's block since winning an Academy Award and has been unable to produce a decent script. One Christmas Eve, he receives an unexpected and very unwanted surprise present. Vice cop Sergeant Sam Hanlon  brings Mark seventeen-year-old Susan Landis . Susan had been abandoned by her mother and was arrested for vagrancy and hitting a Sailor over the head with a beer bottle. Not wanting to keep her in jail over the holidays and aware that Mark was interested in writing a script about juvenile delinquency, the kindhearted cop decides to bend the rules  and offers to let her stay in Mark's luxurious apartment until her arraignment the day after Christmas. Mark is naturally appalled, but is eventually persuaded to take the girl in. This doesn't go over too well with Isabella Alexander , a demanding senator's daughter whom Mark has been dating for years. Isabella's jealousy grows when Susan develops a crush on Mark. Mark's secretary Maude Snodgrass , his best friend Virgil , and his lawyer Harvey Butterworth , do their best to keep the situation under control. When Harvey lets slip that Susan will likely stay in a juvenile detention facility till she is 18, Mark impulsively takes her to Las Vegas and marries her. The marriage, he explains to his friends, will last for just long enough to convince the judge that Susan has made good. The love-struck Susan has other ideas. With the encouragement and support of Maude, who still regrets leaving her childhood love behind for a career in Hollywood, Susan fights to make the marriage permanent. She refuses to sign the annulment papers. When Susan is seen eating strawberries and pickles, Mark's friends assume the worst: that she is pregnant. Susan eventually confesses to Mark that she just likes that combination. Mark has his own confession: he is in love with his wife but is worried by their age difference. Susan tells him all the reasons that they should stay married and pulls him into the bedroom.A revolution has just happened in a South American country while its dictator is away on a trip. He decides to return to subdue the revolutionaries. On the flight to Rome, he meets Luis Vargas, the leading opponent to his dictatorial regime. But General Ribéra learns that Luis has taken this flight to kill him, having boarded with a bomb hidden in a typewriter. Ribéra dies from a heart attack, leaving Luis to do everything he can to save the passengers.Adventurer Jeff Drake sails to a Pacific island in aid of Kelly Walsh, an old friend whose freight line is being sabotaged by a ghost ship . Drake and Walsh's investigation concerns the search for Walter Castell, an escaped convict who stole 5 million dollars in diamonds at the close of World War II. Several other people, including Walsh's sister, all want to go to the island. Drake and his friends encounter multiple dangers when they are attacked by a gang also looking for the stolen diamonds.The film is set in Trinidad while it was still a British colony. Chris Emery  works as a nightclub singer and dancer. One night after her performance she receives news from Inspector Smythe  and Anderson , a member of the American consulate, that her husband Neil was found dead. She is comforted by Neil's friend Max Fabian . Initially, the police conclude that Neil committed suicide based on his gunshot wound and due to a pistol at the crime scene. On further investigation they discover that Neil was in fact murdered. Inspector Smythe and Anderson take Chris into confidence and inform her that Neil's boat was seen outside Fabian's property at the time of his murder. Chris learns that Fabian is in fact a crook who has built his fortune by trading information and aiding in treason and that Neil could have been murdered due to his involvement in Fabian's latest project. Chris agrees to exploit Fabian's love for her to gather information for the police. Meanwhile Neil's brother Steve Emery  arrives in Trinidad at the request of his brother who had written to him about a prospective job. He is shocked to learn that his brother committed suicide shortly after writing to him and sets out to investigate matters on his own. After the inquest Chris and Steve spend some time together. Though she starts falling in love with Steve, Chris is unable to reveal to him her motive behind getting friendly with Fabian. As Chris inches closer to discovering the truth about Fabian, Steve gathers proof of Fabian's involvement in Neil's death. This leads to a showdown in the climax.Set in Casablanca, it recycles aspects of the atmospheric noirish French films of the 1930s together with pulp-fiction American detective films of the post-war period.{{cite web}} Considered either "tongue-in-cheek"{{cite web}} the film "utilizes all the rules of the genre, albeit without convictions: chases, fistfights, nightclubs, unusual settings, knowing winks at the public".{{cite book}} Alphaville, a strange adventure of Lemmy Caution,{{cite book}} casting Constantine and Vernon. Constantine's enduring success started with this. This film was considered "emblematic of French postwar attitudes towards the United States: a fascination for U.S. culture tempered by fear of U.S. dominance".{{cite book}}Two L.A. detectives Cal Bruner  and Jack Farnham  get in over their heads when they decide to split up thousands of dollars they found on a recently killed counterfeiter. To make matters worse, they are assigned by their police captain to look for the missing cash. Things get even worse when one cop gets romantically involved with a money-hungry nightclub singer. When Farnham decides to turn honest and hand the money over to his superiors, the other cop decides to take it all.Victor Scott  is a District Attorney with a drive to win every case. He is assisted by fellow attorney Ellen Miles  who is not quite as hard-driving, but is devoted to her D.A. boss. After Scott discovers that one of the men he sent to his death is innocent, he falls into a drunken haze, is arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct, and determines to defend one of his fellow incarcerated. This leads to a new career as a defense attorney. In the process Scott ends up defending an associate of the city's crime boss, a man he refused to work for earlier in the film due to the fact that “...no one would testify against you; you own the people who work for you”. This, in turn, leads him into direct confrontation with the very office he used to head. Over the course of the film Ellen Miles' kills her husband in self defense and Scott determines to defend her as there are no witnesses. There is a sub-plot here involving Ellen Miles husband, the crime boss, and an ongoing leak between the D.A.s office and the crime boss. The leak turns out to be Ellen's husband, Ray Borden. The new D.A., not knowing this, determines that Ellen herself is the leak and that she has murdered her husband when found out. There is also a shorter story arc in which Scott is encouraged and mentored by Ellen Miles' father. As Ms. Miles's father lies on his death-bed, Scott promises to protect Ms. Miles. As such he acts as surrogate father and mentor to Ms. Miles, encouraging her career as an attorney. There is also a hint that the relationship between Miles and Scott might have been a romantic one had Scott allowed it. Angel O'Hara  plays a small yet important role as witness for the defense. Her testimony places the role of “leak” firmly in the lap of Ray Borden , whom she testifies has had continuing contact with the crime boss, Frank Garland .After capturing an important Rif prisoner in an undercover operation, Sergeant Mike Kincaid is imprisoned himself after striking a Lieutenant  who beats a French woman  with his riding crop after she prefers Kincaid's company to his. Due to a long standing rivalry between Kincaid and the Lieutenant who is in command of the company holding the city of Tarfa whilst the Regiment is away, the Lieuteant uses Kincaid's action of striking him to get his revenge. Kincaid finds himself imprisoned alongside seven military prisoners and the captured Rif who has refused to talk with the Lieutenant refusing food and water to both Kincaid and the Rif. When his two comrades in arms who accompanied him on the mission, Corporals Luis Delgado  and Pierre Molier  sneak food and water to Kincaid, he shares it with the Rif. To repay Kincaid's kindness and assuage his own guilt for telling the Lieutenant about Kincaid's assignation with the Frenchwoman, he tells of an impending attack on Tarfa whilst the garrison is still small. Kincaid tells the Lieutenant that their only chance is to release him to let him lead attacks to delay the enemy for five days until the Regiment returns. The Lieutenant agrees but only if Kincaid will testify that the idea is his and the only men available for the mission are the seven prisoners. Kincaid agrees with him and the seven receiving full pardons for their crimes. The number increases to ten when his two Corporals join him. When scouting an enemy camp, the Legionnaires discover two rival tribes have joined forces making them large enough to seize the city. Using his expertise in disguise and language, Kincaid finds out that the Rif leader, Khalid Hussein , is marrying Mahla  in order to cement an alliance with the other tribe. Kincaid kidnaps her using the pursuit of his unit to gain the five days. Mahla begins to fall in love with her handsome captor, as Hussein pursues the Legionnaires across the desert. In the midst of the dangers, the patrol find a destroyed Legion truck containing a safe that one of the men opens revealing a large Legion payroll of cash.Police Lieutenant Collier Bonnabel  of the homicide department addresses the audience directly, explaining that he only knows one way to solve a case: by applying pressure to all the suspects, playing on their strengths and weaknesses, until one of them snaps under the tension. He then cites a murder case involving Warren Quimby , which leads to a flashback. Bespectacled Quimby, the night manager of a 24 hour drugstore, is married to sexy, unfaithful Claire . Saving and doing without, he is able to buy a nice house in the suburbs, but she is utterly unimpressed, refusing even to look inside. She eventually leaves him for the latest of her conquests, rich Barney Deager . Quimby goes to Deager's Malibu beachfront house to try to get his wife back, but she wants nothing to do with him. When Quimby persists, Deager beats him up. He tells his sympathetic employee, Freddie, what happened. Freddie remarks that if it had been him, he would have killed the man. Deeply humiliated, Quimby takes up Freddie's idea. He constructs a new identity, cosmetics salesman "Paul Sothern", buys contact lenses and flashier clothes, and rents an apartment. As he is moving in, he meets his new neighbor, Mary Chanler . They start dating. Meanwhile, Quimby makes a phone call, leaving a message with Narco, Deager's servant, that he will get Deager for some unspecified wrong. Then, one night, he hitchhikes to Deager's place, grabs a handy barbecue prong and sneaks inside. He finds Quimby asleep in a chair, but cannot go through with the killing. When he drops his weapon, Deager awakes. Quimby grabs the prong and holds it to Deager's neck. He explains that he came to kill his rival, but has suddenly realized that Claire is not worth it. Then, seeing that his wife is absent, he mocks Deager, guessing that Claire has said she was going to the movies ... the excuse she used while cheating on him. After Quimby leaves, Deager becomes thoughtful. Quimby is surprised when Claire returns to him. When he refuses to believe she has come back out of love, she tells him Deager has been murdered. Before Quimby has time to absorb the news, Bonnabel and his partner, Lieutenant Gonsales , arrive to question them. They know that Claire left the murder scene before they were called. She says that she only went to Deager's place to swim regularly, and that she and her husband were Deager's friends. Quimby is forced to play along to avoid suspicion. The police are looking for Paul Sothern, the prime suspect. However, following his stated policy, Bonnabel leads Claire on, pretending he is attracted to her. The police get a break when Mary goes to the Bureau of Missing Persons, concerned about Sothern's disappearance. She brings a photograph. Bonnabel eventually realizes Sothern and Quimby are the same man. However, Deager was shot, and they do not have the gun. Bonnabel maneuvers Mary to Quimby's workplace, but she refuses to identify Quimby and states that her faith in Sothern is unshaken. The police arrest Quimby anyway. Under questioning, he tells them his story, but they find it hard to believe. Later, Bonnabel tells Claire that they had to release her husband due to insufficient evidence; he plants the idea that the gun is the vital clue they need to convict Quimby. Claire drives out into the country, retrieves the gun, and plants it in Sothern's apartment. Quimby arrives, followed shortly by the police. Bonnabel encourages Claire to resume searching; she "finds" the gun under a chair cushion, but then Bonnabel explains that all the furniture had been replaced. After Claire is taken into custody, Mary says the furniture had not been changed. Bonnabel replies that it would have been too much work.Albert Gallatin "Lat" Evans ([[Don Murray , an earnest young cowboy determined to better his situation, wins a job with a cattle drive by busting a wild horse. Befriended by cowhand Tom Ping (Stuart Whitman}, Lat fantasizes about owning his own ranch and being rich one day, unlike his father, who died "broke, a failure." When the drive reaches a small Wyoming town, the cowboys congregate at the saloon, where Jehu ([[Richard Egan , an unscrupulous rancher, proposes racing one of their horses against his swift steed. Lat accepts the challenge, and is in the lead when his opponent throws a blanket at his face, causing Lat to lose his balance and fall from his horse. Marshal Conrad , the town's upstanding banker, intervenes, however, and declares Lat the winner. That night, Tom and Lat celebrate with saloon girls Jen  and Callie . With their winnings, they decide to leave the cattle drive and hunt wolves for their hides. After bidding his cowhand friends goodbye, Lat, feeling melancholy, gets drunk and visits Callie. When Lat recalls a traumatic incident from his childhood in which his father beat him for being alone with a girl in the woodshed, Callie feels empathy. Restless and impatient to become successful, Lat asks Conrad for a loan to buy a ranch. After Conrad turns him down, Callie gives Lat her life savings to buy a piece of land, which he then uses as collateral for a loan from Conrad to purchase a herd of cattle. Lat makes Tom a partner in the venture, and after a hard winter, Lat prospers while the other ranchers falter, since he grew hay in the low lands to feed hay to the cattle in the winter. As his fortunes improve, Lat begins to shun Callie for Conrad's niece Joyce ([[Patricia Owens . When Tom tells Lat that he plans to marry Jen, Lat questions his decision and calls Jen a tramp, causing Tom to angrily renounce their partnership. One night, while Lat is dining at Conrad's, the banker proposes that he enter politics by running for the school board. Meanwhile, Callie, who has baked a cake for Lat, anxiously awaits his arrival, and when Jehu appears instead, she fights off his crude advances. After dinner, Joyce invites Lat to call on her if he is reputable. Lat goes to Callie's house and informs her that there is no place in his life for her. Soon after, Lat and Joyce are married and start a family. Jehu and Callie become lovers. When Lat decides to run for U.S. Senator, he is visited by Jehu and rancher Frank Chanault , who use the promise of their votes to coerce him into joining a group of rancher vigilantes on the trail of some horse thieves. The ranchers corner the thieves at their mountain hideout, and after a gun battle, the two surviving rustlers surrender, and Lat is shocked to discover that Tom is one of them. After Tom confesses, he accuses Lat of worshiping the tin god of money. Jehu sentences Tom to hang, and when Lat protests that he be allowed to stand trial, Jehu knocks him unconscious and then hangs Tom. Riddled with remorse, Lat returns home and Joyce hands him a distress note from Callie. Although Joyce jealousy forbids Lat to see Callie, Lat contends that he owes her a debt and proceeds to her house. There, Lat learns from her servant Happy  that Jehu has savagely beaten Callie. Outraged, Lat goes in search of Jehu. After finding Jehu at the saloon, the two begin to fight and their brawl spills onto the street as the townsfolk watch in consternation. Pulling a rifle from a saddle, Jehu aims it at Lat just as a gunshot fired by Callie rings out, killing Jehu. Later, at home, Joyce forgives Lat, and when he informs her that he intends to testify at Callie's trial, she graciously gives her consent.Movies.NYtimes.comTCM.comPortly amateur detective Runyan is hired by dental nurse Adams to investigate the unexplained murder of her boss. Suspicion falls on disappeared patient Clark, who had been helped by probable gangster Gordon. Runyan finds Boyd, Clark’s former lover and briefly his wife, who reveals that Clark had done time in jail. The police tell Runyan it was for robbery of half a million unrecovered dollars. In jail, Clark had a cellmate Deets, with whom he shared everything. On release, Deets had claimed Clark’s share of the loot from Gordon and had promised to eliminate Clark, whose corpse he left in a burnt-out truck. When he realised Clark had been having dental treatment, so his teeth could be identified, he killed first the unfortunate dentist and then the nurse as well. Runyan tracks him down and in a final shoot-out he meets his end.Don Arturo Bordega  is part of the old Spanish nobility, and a vocal advocate for California'a annexation by the United States. On his way to a secret meeting in support of that goal, he is attacked by bandits led by José Martínez , but narrowly escapes. The planned "guest of honor" at the scret meeting to which Bordega is en route, is none other than then-U.S. Army Captain John Charles Fremont. Martinez's thugs attempt to assassinate Fremont while he is traveling to the same meeting, but succeed only in lightly wounding him. It is subsequently revealed that the corrupt Brios brothers, Ernesto  and Fredo  have paid Martinez to violently oppose the movement advocating American annexation of California, as part of their unscrupulous plot to deliver California to the imperial domain of the Russian Czar . Martinez's men violently seize a quantity of rifles from gunsmith Sam Lawrence , in order to arm a force in support of the Russian conquest of California. This invokes the wrath of his beautiful daughter, Julia , who winds up joining Arturo Bordega in his mission to infiltrate Martinez's bandit group, in order to foil their part in the nefarious scheme. Martinez is eventually killed by Julia Lawrence , during a period in which they learn the nature of the Brios' plot. Arturo Bordega and Julia Lawrence eventually travel to Fort Ross, where they are able to capture Fredo Brios , and otherwise manage to thwart the treasonous conspiracy. During the course of their travels together, Bordega and Lawrence fall in love, and the film concludes with their stated intent to marry, and "have 14 children."The film centers around a professional ice hockey team called the Red Devils who are in the midst of a extended losing streak. The losing streak is due to the team's proprietor Jack Monohan  taking bribes from gamblers. The team receives fresh hope in the form of a new player, Mike Connors . Mike is an arrogant and self-assured man, who is also Jack's former childhood friend. His talent helps the team regain their formerly winning ways. However, the new star quickly becomes disliked for his egocentric attitude and playing style. Matters worsen when Jack's sister Margaret  becomes attracted in Mike. This romantic interest leads to an out-and-out brawl between the two men. The fight is stopped after a local drifter named Brutus steps in but tragically is stabbed by Mike. The situation takes a turn for the worse when an angered Mike takes a bribe - to throw the extremely important final game - from a gambler named Rocky Gibraltar . Fortunately, during the game, Mike sees sense with the help of a young, admiring fan named Davey . He helps win the game.The Black Rebels Motorcycle Club, a group of bikers led by Johnny Strabler , rides into Carbonville, California during a motorcycle race and causes trouble. A member of the gang, Mouse , steals the second place trophy  and presents it to Johnny. Stewards and policemen order them to leave. The bikers head to Wrightsville, which only has one elderly, conciliatory lawman, Chief Harry Bleeker ([[Robert Keith , to maintain order. The residents are uneasy, but mostly willing to put up with their visitors. When their antics cause Art Kleiner ([[Will Wright  to swerve and crash his car, he demands that something be done, but Harry is reluctant to act, a weakness that is not lost on the interlopers. This accident results in the gang having to stay longer in town as one member injured himself falling off his motorcycle. Although the young men become more and more boisterous, their custom is enthusiastically welcomed by Frank Bleeker  who runs the local cafe-bar, employing Harry's daughter, Kathie and the elderly Jimmy . At the Bleeker's cafe, Johnny meets Kathie, ([[Mary Murphy . He asks her out to a dance being held that night. Kathie politely turns him down, but she is visibly intrigued by Johnny's dark, brooding personality. When another local girl  asks him "What are you rebelling against, Johnny?", he answers "Whaddaya got?" Johnny is attracted to Kathie and decides to stay a while. However, when he learns that she is the policeman's daughter, he changes his mind. Then a rival biker gang, The Beetles, arrives. Their leader, Chino , bears a grudge against Johnny. Chino reveals the two groups used to be one large gang before Johnny split it up. When Chino takes Johnny's trophy, the two begin to fight and Johnny wins. When local Charlie Thomas  stubbornly tries to drive through, he hits a parked motorcycle and injures Meatball, one of Chino's bikers. Chino pulls Charlie out and leads both gangs to overturn his car. Harry intervenes and begins to arrest both Chino and Charlie, but when other townspeople remind Harry that Charlie would cause problems for him in the future, he only takes Chino to the station. Later that night, Chino's gang abducts Charlie and puts him in the same jail cell as Chino, who is too drunk to leave with his friends. Some Beetles members harass the telephone switchboard operator into leaving thereby disrupting the townspeople's communication. Later, as both gangs wreck the town and intimidate the inhabitants, some bikers led by Gringo  chase and surround Kathie, but Johnny rescues her and takes her on a long ride in the countryside. Frightened at first, Kathie comes to see that Johnny is genuinely attracted to her and means her no harm. When she opens up to him and asks to go with him, he rejects her. Crying, she runs away. Johnny drives off to search for her. This is seen and misinterpreted by Art Kleiner. The townspeople have had enough; Johnny's supposed assault on Kathie is the last straw. Vigilantes led by Charlie Thomas chase and catch Johnny and beat him mercilessly, but he escapes on his motorcycle when the mob is confronted by Harry. The mob give chase, and he is hit by a thrown tire iron and falls. His riderless motorcycle strikes and kills Jimmy. Sheriff Singer  arrives with his deputies and restores order. Johnny is initially arrested for Jimmy's death. Kathie pleads on his behalf. Seeing this, two witnesses step forward and testify that Johnny was not responsible for the tragedy. Johnny is unable to thank them. The motorcyclists are ordered to leave the county albeit paying for all damage. Returning alone to Wrightsville, however, Johnny re-visits the cafe to say goodbye to Kathie one final time. He smiles awkwardly offering her his stolen trophy before leaving.In the course of a drunken reunion, two old friends  switch clothes before passing out. Next morning, their changed clothes result in a series of cases of mistaken identity. The film follows the efforts of each to reunite himself with his own destiny.The film begins in black-and-white and in standard 4:3 aspect ratio, as travel writer and newscaster Lowell Thomas appears on screen to discuss the evolution of motion picture entertainment, from the earliest cave paintings designed to suggest movement, up to the introduction of color and sound. At the conclusion of the 12-minute lecture, Thomas speaks the words "This is Cinerama" and the screen expands into the full Cinerama aspect ratio and colour as a series of vignettes, narrated by Thomas begin. The film includes scenes of the roller coaster from Rockaways' Playland, then moves on to a scene of the temple dance from Aida, views of Niagara Falls, a performance by a church choir , a performance by the Vienna Boys' Choir, scenes of the canals of Venice, a military tattoo in Edinburgh, a bullfight, more from Aida, a sound demonstration in stereo, scenes from Cypress Gardens amusement park including a water skiing showWater skis, incidentally, having been first patented by Fred Waller, inventor of Cinerama,, and the playing of America the Beautiful as scenes are shown from the nose of a low flying B-25. The producers were Thomas, Merian C. Cooper, and Robert L. Bendick, directed by Bendick . Cooper had long experience with technical innovation in cinema, including King Kong.The Stooges are auto mechanics who need money in order to marry their sweethearts. While working in their auto garage, some escaped convicts pull in with a damaged fender. While the trio are working on the vehicle, they hear a news flash over the radio about some escaped convicts. They put the pieces together and realize that the baddies are right in their garage. The boys capture the crooks, collect the reward, and marry their sweethearts.Brad Braden is the no-nonsense general manager of what was at the time the world's largest railroad circus. He has a number of problems on his hands for the upcoming season. The show's board of directors plan to run a short 10 week season rather than risk losing $25,000 a day in a shaky post-war economy. Brad bargains to keep the circus on the road as long as it is making a profit, thus keeping the 1,400 performers and roustabouts who make Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus' the Greatest Show On Earth working. Brad's first problem is having to tell his girlfriend, Holly, a flyer who has no idea whom she is in love with and who had been expecting to be the star of that season's show, that she's out of the center ring. The only way he was able to get management to agree to a full season was to hire The Great Sebastian, "the debonair King of the Air" and world-class trapeze artist, as the star of the show. Holly knows Brad must think of the show first and personal feelings second, and that he does not take chances with the show, but is nevertheless infuriated at his decision. His second problem is keeping Sebastian under control. He has a well-deserved reputation as a ladies' man who has cut a wide swath through the female contingent of every show he's ever worked in, to the detriment of the running of those shows. His third problem is keeping an eye on Harry, a midway concessionaire he suspects of running crooked games of chance, who works for a mysterious gangster named Mr. Henderson . Another situation unbeknownst to Brad involves the beloved Buttons the Clown, who is never seen without his makeup. During a performance, Buttons converses with a woman member of the audience &mdash; who warns him that an unnamed "they" are asking questions about him again. She is in fact his mother and they see each other only once a year. Hints about his former life are revealed as he gives first aid to performers and wraps bandages around a trapeze for Holly in an expert manner. Holly later finds a newspaper article about a doctor who had "mercy killed" his wife. The competition between Holly and Sebastian for the center ring develops into a romantic triangle as well, with both Sebastian and Brad vying for Holly as the aerialists' acts become increasingly daring and dangerous. Sebastian ignores his former lovers on the show: Angel, who performs in the elephant act; and Phyllis, who does a double turn as an iron jaw artist and a vocalist starring in a South Seas spectacular built around her talent as a singer. The duel ends when, in response to a challenge from Holly, Sebastian removes his safety net and suffers serious injuries in a fall when a trick goes wrong. Buttons tends to him, and when a doctor expresses admiration for the way he dealt with the injuries the clown explains, a little nervously, that he used to be a pharmacist's mate. Holly finally has the center ring and star billing &mdash; but not the way she wanted it. Brad is unable to comfort her because she is in love with Sebastian. One problem at least is resolved. When Harry is caught cheating circus attendees on the midway, Brad calls him on it and fires him, finishing the fight Harry started by throwing him into a puddle of mud. Harry leaves the lot, vowing revenge. He is seen now and then on the periphery of the show, shooting craps and sowing disaffection, particularly with Klaus the elephant trainer who is obsessed with Angel, one of the "ballet girls"  who works with his elephants as "the Sultan's Favorite." Sebastian rejoins the show, but is unable to return to the trapeze due to an injury which has left him with a useless right arm. A guilt-ridden Holly professes her love for her former rival over the cold, unfeeling Brad. Calling Holly a fool "for busting up the swellest guy in the circus," Angel makes a pass at Brad and they become an item. This sits badly with Klaus, who has spent the entire season pursuing Angel and cannot accept that she is not in love with him and does not want him. As they are about to leave one stand, Special Agent Gregory of the FBI intercepts Brad, asking if the circus doctor looked like a photograph of a man he is hunting . Having never seen Buttons without makeup, Brad doesn't recognize the man in the photo. The detective boards the train to continue his investigation. Brad mentions this to Buttons, who tells him that Sebastian has feeling in his injured hand &mdash; a sign that his disability is not permanent. Brad makes the connection between Buttons and the fugitive doctor and comments that the police will be taking fingerprints. The implication is that Buttons should make himself scarce until the detective leaves the show to search elsewhere. The joy of Sebastian's potential recovery is overshadowed by a spectacular collision of the circus' two trains, set up by Harry, the crooked midway operator fired by Brad, and Angel's rejected suitor, Klaus, as a byproduct of their robbing the circus pay wagon of the money earned by the show at the last stand. Buttons, who had been about to flee, returns after a plea from Holly, who, like Brad, had made the connection between the doctor "who killed the wife he loved, then vanished" and his new identity as Buttons the Clown, and saves the critically injured Brad's life by giving him a blood transfusion from Sebastian "on the fly," despite knowing that Gregory is watching. This in turn leads to Gregory reluctantly arresting Buttons, who he declares "is all right." Holly realizes that she is actually in love with Brad, that she has always loved him; and takes command of the show, mounting a circus parade through the town nearest the crash and staging an open air show by the crash site . Brad's near-death experience forces him to admit that he is in love with Holly, but ironically she now hasn't time for him because the show must go on. The last loose end is tied up when Sebastian proposes to Angel and she accepts. The movie ends with the troupe mounting a "spec" to open their improvised performance, which will keep the show in the black and enable them to continue their tour, a magnificent recovery from disaster.Kikuyu tribal members work on Henry McKenzie's farm in 1940s Kenya. Two young men, Kenyan native Kimani and Henry's son Peter, have grown up together, almost like brothers. Prejudices surface when Peter's brother-in-law Jeff Newton slaps the face of Kimani after his request to use a rifle. Kimani leaves the farm, but is carried back by Peter after having caught his foot in a trap. Mau Mau tribesmen plot an insurrection as Kenya's tensions rise. Kimani sides with them and is asked to steal a supply of rifles as a test. He parts ways for many years with Peter, who becomes a safari leader to help raise money for the farm. His fiancee Holly Keith arrives and they intend to marry. Kimani impregnates the daughter of a Mau Mau trible elder. A raid on the farm results in the murders of Newton and his children. British forces retaliate by bombing a Mau Mau encampment, taking tribesmen prisoner and torturing them. Peter wants to continue his life in Africa, but troubles worsen when Holly must fight off Mau Mau warriors. Henry hastily gets her and Newton's wife to safety in Nairobi. Peter goes looking for Kimani, who has been identified as the leader of the Mau Mau raiding party that killed his brother-in-law and Newton's children. They fight to the death, Kimani ultimately falling into a pit of bamboo spikes.In the Caribbean, late in the 18th century, Captain Vallo , a pirate known as "The Crimson Pirate", and his crew capture a ship of the King's navy. The ship is carrying Baron Gruda , the special envoy to the King, who is on his way to the Island of Cobra to help crush a rebellion by rebels opposed to the King's rule. Vallo proposes to make money by selling the weapons on the ship to El Libre, the leader of the rebels. Baron Gruda then proposes to pay Vallo money if he can capture El Libre and bring him to him. Vallo accepts and Baron Gruda and his crew are released, Vallo keeping their ship and releasing Gruda and his men onto his own. While some of the pirates complain that this is not pirate business, they soon come around when they find out the amount of money to be made. Vallo and his crew sail to Cobra, where Vallo and his lieutenant, Ojo , go ashore to meet the rebels. They eventually meet the rebels who are led by Pablo Murphy ([[Noel Purcell  and Consuelo , where they learn that El Libre has been captured and is in a military prison on the island of San Pero. The meeting is interrupted when they are discovered by the King's guards. Consuelo leads Vallo and Ojo to safety, then they all go to the ship. Vallo tells the crew he will rescue El Libre, though Consuelo only believes Vallo is interested in selling weapons to him. She promises him he will get the money. Consuelo also tells Vallo El Libre is her father. They sail to San Pero. Vallo, dressing in the clothes left on board the ship, pretends to be Baron Gruda and goes to a dinner held in honour of Gruda by the Colonel of the garrison . The Colonel shows Vallo El Libre  and another captured rebel, Professor Elihu Prudence ([[James Hayter . Vallo orders the prisoners to be released into his custody and leaves with them. They all go to the ship which then leaves for Cobra. Consuelo is grateful to Vallo for rescuing her father but is distraught to find out that Vallo intends to sell her, El Libre, and the Professor to Baron Gruda. Ojo suggests to Vallo that he is in love with Consuelo. Vallo denies this but decides to release them instead of selling them to Gruda. Consuelo begs Vallo to come with them but he refuses. Unknown to Vallo, his first mate, Humble Bellows , overhears them. Bellows plots against Vallo, sending one of the pirates ashore with a message for Gruda. Vallo lets El Libre and Consuelo go first, but the King's guards are waiting. El Libre is killed and Consuelo is captured. The pirates mutiny and Humble Bellows is elected Captain. Baron Gruda promises Bellows money for dealing with Vallo. Vallo, Ojo, and the Professor are cast adrift in a boat to die. Gruda proposes a toast, giving the pirates a barrel of rum. Unknown to the pirates, the rum is drugged and when they fall asleep, they are captured, transferred back to Vallo's ship, and held prisoners for Gruda to sell them to the King. Baron Gruda tells Consuelo that she will marry Herman , the Governor of Cobra, or he will kill the people of Cobra. Consuelo agrees, Gruda then announcing the date of the wedding and forcing the people to attend. Meanwhile, Vallo, Ojo, and the Professor manage to escape back to Cobra where they find out about the wedding. Vallo intends to rescue Consuelo but the Professor tells him he needs the help of the people. Vallo agrees, and along with the Professor builds weapons and trains the people how to use them. They make nitroglycerin bombs, tanks, flamethrowers, and a hot air balloon. On the day of the wedding, the people revolt before the ceremony and overthrow the guards. Baron Gruda manages to escape to his ship, taking Consuelo with him. Vallo and Ojo go after them, taking the hot air balloon. They spot their ship, climb down to it, and release the pirates. They then go after Gruda's ship. When they get close to the ship, Vallo orders the pirates below deck, making Gruda think they are about to launch a broadside. They sneak out the back of the ship, and swim underwater to Gruda's ship. A repentant Humble Bellows stays behind to keep the ship on course, presumably sacrificing himself. Gruda launches a broadside against Vallo's ship, destroying it. Vallo and the pirates then board Gruda's ship and fight with Gruda and his guards. The guards are defeated and Gruda is killed. Vallo and Consuelo embrace.The original plot is more-or-less adhered to, with some significant alterations. Benny is depicted as a comic Bob Hope-like coward, but not as a sissy. El Khobar's alter ego is that of a mild-mannered  Latin tutor and anthropologist, whom Birabeau hires to keep Margot from flirting with his regiment. The conclusion to the film is slightly different, since El Khobar is not Birabeau's son here. After the final battle, the General's soldiers realize that El Khobar and the Riffs were actually on their side and helped in preventing an uprising. When one asks, "And where is El Khobar?", MacRae, as the professor, enters carrying El Khobar's clothes, and quietly announces "El Khobar is dead". Margot is grief-stricken, but Birabeau, suspecting the truth, mischievously says that they can all be grateful to "the ghost of El Khobar", winking as he says this. As soon as they are alone, MacRae begins to sing the song One Alone to Margot, making her realize that her boring Latin tutor and the dashing El Khobar are one and the same. She rushes into his arms.http://www.tcm.com/tcmdb/title.jsp?stidFull%20Synopsis One song not by Romberg, Gay Parisienne, written for the 1943 film version of the show, is retained for this film.Matt Dow meets young cowboy Davey Bishop for the first time. As they take turns shooting at a hawk, a train that has recently been robbed goes by. Mistaking it for an attack by train robbers, a bag of money is tossed from the train toward the two men. Dow and Davey take the money to town, where they are presumed to have robbed the train. Davey is shot, wounded and taken to the Swenson farm to recover. Matt explains what happened and is made welcome by Helga Swenson and her father. The townspeople regret the shooting of Davey, whose limp will be permanent. Matt accepts a job as sheriff, trying to redeem himself for a shady past. He also begins to court Helga. Outlaws led by a man named Morgan rob the town's bank. One recognizes Matt, which makes the townsfolk worry that he might be in on this. Matt sets out to capture one of the robbers, but Davey, now a deputy, fails to stop another thief from being lynched. And Helga's father is also accidentally killed. A posse is formed, but after a hard ride, Matt and Davey are the only ones left. Bodies of most of the thieves are found dead with Comanche arrows in them. Davey double-crosses Matt, confessing that he was in on the robbery all along. A wounded Matt tries to make it across a river and the money drifts away. Davey and Morgan discuss how to get it back. Davey decides to do the right thing at last and shoots Morgan, but mistakenly Matt believes that Davey has drawn a gun on him and shoots in self-defense. Davey is dead and Matt rides back to Helga to explain.In the autumn of 1864, remnants of the Confederate 5th Georgia Cavalry are prisoners of war in the Union prison camp at Rock Island, Illinois. Sick and dying in deplorable conditions, they find a chance for survival when Union Captain Mark Bradford  offers them release from "this stinking pesthole"Wills, Brian Steel . Gone with the Glory: The History of the Civil War in Cinema, Rowman and Littlefield. ISBN 0-7425-4525-3, p. 167. if they will join the Union Army to garrison a fort on the western frontier, undermanned because its able-bodied regulars have been sent east, leaving only "greenhorns or casualties"Wills , p. 168. like Bradford to fight Indians. Although promised that they will not be compelled to fight against their own, many of the Georgians resist the offer. Putting the decision to a vote, the issue is deadlocked when the last soldier dies before he can choose. Compassion for his men, and Bradford's sincerity, compels their reluctant commander, Col. Clay Tucker  to break the tie by agreeing to the conditions offered. The troop arrives at Fort Thorn, New Mexico, a small outpost of the 3rd Cavalry. Their welcome from the post commander, Major Henry Kenniston , is stern and provocative. The bitter Kenniston has a limp from a wound that relegated him to Fort Thorn early in the war. Tucker, now a lieutenant in the Union Army, dines with Kenniston, his widowed sister-in-law Elena  and civilian guests, and is put on edge by their patronizing comments. Tension becomes high when Tucker reveals that he led the cavalry charge that killed Elena's husband. Elena has been stranded for months at the fort on her way home, and is uneasy with her brother-in-law's protectiveness, suspecting that he believes himself to be his late brother's surrogate. Friction quickly develops between the Northern and Southern soldiers. When Tucker's men try to pursue a band of Indians but are ordered to stop, they mock the order as Yankee irresoluteness. Kenniston rebukes them, warning them they had been riding into an ambush. He assigns them to execute two civilians, but informed that they are Confederate agents, Tucker objects to no avail. He begins plotting to desert the command, which Kenniston shrewdly deduces. On the basis that he does not want "enemies" in his ranks, he assigns Tucker's troop to escort a wagon train, knowing Tucker will deliver it safely before deserting. Elena escapes by concealing herself in a wagon, which Tucker discovers but allows to continue. A civilian in the train  reveals himself as a Confederate agent and enlists Tucker in a plan to link California with the South. He persuades Tucker to return to Fort Thorn and to take back Elena to gain Kenniston's confidence. While surprised by Tucker's actions, Kenniston continues to be wary of him. The troop is away from the fort when Kenniston executes a Kiowa warrior, son of the chief Satank, as a "rebel and traitor". Tucker receives his orders to join the Confederates and makes Bradford a prisoner. He has him escorted back to the fort but Bradford's escort returns to report that the fort is under siege by hundreds of Kiowa warriors. Despite strong misgivings, Tucker decides to return. The troop fights its way into the fort, but can only delay the inevitable, saved from annihilation only by the setting of the sun. Bradford is killed. Kenniston decides to offer himself as a sacrifice and turns over command to Tucker. A few days later a dispatch rider arrives with news that Gen. Sherman has completed his march to the sea, spelling doom for the Confederacy. Elena tries to comfort a despairing Tucker with the hope that things will seem better tomorrow.
A rich novelist, Stephen Byrne, who lives and works by a river, kills his attractive maid after she begins screaming following a drunken pass. The writer, with the help of his limping brother, loads the body into an old sack and the pair throws the body into the river. Unfortunately, the body comes back up and floats by the house days later. Despite desperate attempts by the brothers to get the body, the police end up recovering it. Byrne, who uses the woman's disappearance and killing for publicity for his books, realizes that his brother is the one who is going to be accused of the crime. Meanwhile, he begins writing a book about the crime in another attempt to cash in on the scandal. His wife and brother begin to fall in love, despite the fact that he has become the prime suspect.Bheemasena Rao  is a dignified and respectful man. His son  works in Military services. His daughter is Rukmini . His close friend and relative Salahala Rao  is trying to arrange marriage to his daughter. Krishna Rao  is his relative of Salahala Rao. He was sent to meet Bheemasena Rao with recommendation letter. During the meantime he attracts Rukmini with his good manners. Bheemasena Rao arranged marriage between Krishna Rao and Rukmini and a political leader takes Marriage Vows  from them that they should not cheat each other. Krishna Rao starts new family in the town. He finds a job in a company "Andalu and Alankaralu". During the next seven years, they had four children. Subsequently Krishna Rao started getting attracted to other women. He gets close to his new typist Radha Rani . He even goes to her house during the absence of his wife. After knowing about the affair, Rukmini and Salahala Rao plays a small drama and let Krishna Rao know about his mistake. Brother of Rukmini marries the pious Radha Rani.As the war ended, some soldiers of color refused to abandon northern Italy to return to America by the intolerance, deserting. Of them, Jerry  falls in love with Angela , a local girl.Coming to the assistance of a nanny who is almost killed during a bungled hit-and-run assassination attempt, Richard Hannay  is surprised to find that there is no baby in her pram. Curious, he meets her at the Palace music hall where she has gone to see the act of Mr Memory ([[James Hayter . Afterwards, she goes back to Hannay's flat with him, where she reveals that she is a spy working for British Intelligence following a group called "The Thirty-Nine Steps"; all they know about their elusive leader is that he is missing the tip of a finger. The Thirty-Nine Steps are in possession of a set of top-secret plans for "Boomerang", a British ballistic missile project that could tip the balance of power in Europe. She tells Hannay that she must leave for Scotland immediately, but while Hannay is out of the room, she is killed by two hitmen. Fearing he will be accused of her murder, Hannay decides to continue her mission and catches a train to Scotland from King's Cross railway station, evading the hitmen outside his flat by adopting a cunning milkman disguise. During the journey, he has a chance encounter with Miss Fisher , a netball coach at a boarding school for girls. He is forced to pretend they are lovers to avoid the police detectives who boarded at Edinburgh. However, Miss Fisher gives him away and Hannay jumps from the stationary train on the Forth Bridge. He then meets Percy Baker , a helpful ex-convict lorry driver who advises him to stop at "The Gallows", an inn owned by Nelly Lumsden , who was once accused of practising the occult. She helps him pass the police patrols by disguising him in a cycle party she is accommodating and creating a diversion with her husband. Hannay eventually finds the house of the man he thinks he is looking for, Professor Logan ([[Barry Jones , but finds out that he has been tricked; the man is actually the spy ring's leader. He escapes and informs the police, but is not believed and has to jump out of the police station window. Hannay escapes in the back of a passing sheep transporter. He then poses as a lecturer in a Highland girl's boarding school, coincidentally where Miss Fisher works, and ending up giving a bizarre lecture on the Woods and the Wayside in August. Miss Fisher recognises him and he is again taken into custody, but this time by the two assassins posing as detectives. After he shouts out to Miss Fisher to telephone Scotland Yard about the Boomerang, the assassins are forced to take her with them. Hannay is handcuffed to Miss Fisher in a Ford Zephyr with the hitmen, who are taking them back to London. A burst tyre gives Hannay his chance to escape, but only having one hand to drive with, he crashes the car, forcing him to wander through the bleak Scottish Highlands handcuffed to Miss Fisher. Eventually, they chance upon a bed and breakfast run by Mrs MacDougal . Hannay hides their handcuffed condition and informs her that they are a runaway couple. While Hannay sleeps, Miss Fisher frees herself from the handcuffs, but then overhears their pursuers inquiring about them and about The Thirty-Nine Steps. She realises her error and goes back to help Hannay, telling him the final rendezvous for the conspirators. The finale is back in the Palace music hall where Hannay provokes Mr. Memory into telling him where "The Thirty-Nine Steps" are, just as the police arrest him. Mr Memory has used his formidable memory to memorise the Boomerang plans. However, before he can reveal the secret, Memory is shot by the ringleader and the secret is safe, as the main conspirators are either dead or in custody.Cinderella is the much-loved only child of a widowed aristocrat. After deciding that his beloved daughter needs a mother's care, Cinderella's father marries Lady Tremaine, a proud woman with two daughters from her first marriage, Drizella and Anastasia. Plain and socially awkward, these stepsisters are bitterly envious of the beautiful and charming Cinderella. After the death of Cinderella's father, Lady Tremaine and her daughters take over the estate, and begin to abuse and mistreat Cinderella out of jealousy, and even allow their cat, Lucifer, to torment her. Despite being forced into servitude in her own home, Cinderella becomes a kind woman and befriends the animals living in the barn and many of the mice and birds who live in and around the chateau. At the royal palace, the King is distressed that his son does not intend to marry. Determined to see grandchildren, the King and the Duke organize a ball for Prince Charming in an effort to enable his son to marry, with every eligible maiden in the kingdom requested to attend. When the invitation to the ball arrives, Cinderella asks her stepmother if she can attend, since she too is an eligible maiden. Lady Tremaine agrees, provided Cinderella finishes her chores and finds something suitable to wear. Her animal friends, led by Jaq and Gus, fix a gown that belonged to Cinderella's mother, using beads and a sash cast away by Drizella and Anastasia. When Cinderella wears her dress just before departing, Lady Tremaine compliments Cinderella's gown, subtly pointing out the beads and sash. Angered by the apparent theft of the discarded items, the stepsisters destroy the gown, forcing Cinderella to remain behind while her stepfamily leaves for the royal ball. At the point of giving up her dreams, Cinderella's Fairy Godmother appears and bestows upon Cinderella a silver blue dress with glass slippers, and transforms a pumpkin and various animals into a carriage with horses, a coachman and a footman. Cinderella departs for the ball after the godmother warns her that the spell will break at the stroke of midnight, meaning that her dress and everything else will change back to the way they were. At the ball, the Prince rejects every girl , until he sees Cinderella. The two fall in love and dance alone throughout the castle grounds until the clock starts to chime midnight. Cinderella flees to her coach and away from the castle, inadvertently dropping one of her glass slippers. After the Duke tells the King of the disaster, they plan to find Cinderella with the slipper they recovered during her exit. The next morning, the King proclaims that the Grand Duke will visit every house in the kingdom to find the girl who fits the glass slipper, so that she can be married to the Prince. When this news reaches Cinderella's household, her stepmother and stepsisters prepare for the Grand Duke's arrival. Cinderella, overhearing the news, begins dreamily humming the song from the palace ball the previous night. Upon realizing that Cinderella is the girl who danced with the Prince, Lady Tremaine locks Cinderella up to her attic bedroom. When the Grand Duke arrives, the mice steal the key to Cinderella's room, but before they can deliver it they are ambushed by Lucifer. The animals alert Bruno, Cinderella's bloodhound, who scares Lucifer out of the house. As the Duke prepares to leave after the stepsisters unsuccessfully try on the slipper, Cinderella appears and requests to try it on. Knowing that the slipper will fit, Lady Tremaine trips the footman, causing him to drop the slipper, which shatters into hundreds of pieces. The Duke laments over the broken slipper, but Cinderella then produces the other glass slipper, much to her stepmother's horror. Delighted at this indisputable proof of the maiden's identity, the Duke slides the slipper onto her foot, which fits perfectly. Soon after, Cinderella and the Prince celebrate their wedding, surrounded by confetti tossed by the King, the Grand Duke and the mice.A comedy of manners, the film centers on virtuous actress Patty O'Neill, who meets playboy architect Donald Gresham on the observation deck of the Empire State Building and accepts his invitation to join him for drinks and dinner in his apartment. There she meets Donald's upstairs neighbors, his ex-fiancée Cynthia and her father, roguish David Slader. Both men are determined to bed the young woman, but they quickly discover Patty is more interested in engaging in spirited discussions about the pressing moral and sexual issues of the day than surrendering her virginity to either one of them. After resisting their amorous advances throughout the night, Patty leaves and returns to the Empire State Building, where Donald finds her and proposes marriage.A man  suffers a car accident. He's taken to the hospital, where Sister Anna  takes care of him. The man is the reason Anna became a nun. She remembers the days she was leading a life of sin as a night club singer.The late nineteenth century: Count d'Origo, a notorious roué, spots an attractive woman. Hoping to seduce her, he attempts to find out who she is. In fact she is Geraldine, a practiced courtesan. However, the local mayor tells the Count that she is Ottavia, the wife of his nephew, Enrico, a struggling young musician. Enrico is hoping to stage his newly completed opera. With the Count's support he will get the backing he needs. His uncle hopes to help Enrico by employing Geraldine to impersonate Ottavia, so she can be "seduced". Before she submits, Geraldine will extract a promise from the Count to stage her "husband"'s opera. Geraldine, Ottavia and Enrico agree to go along with the plot. However, as Enrico introduces Geraldine to the eager Count he becomes increasingly jealous as the Count moves in. Eventually he forces the Count to leave after becoming angered by his advances. Charmed by his protectiveness, Geraldine asks him to pretend she is really his wife for one night, so that she can live her dream of having a normal life with a devoted husband. Meanwhile, the real Ottavia has been staying at Geraldine's home, where she becomes intrigued by the courtesan lifestyle. She is coached in skills of flirtation by Geraldine's maid. Pretending to be Geraldine, she entertains two buffoonish suitors. Sexually frustrated, the Count learns about the courtesan Geraldine and visits her home. He is entranced by Ottavia. When she learns that her husband threw the Count out to be alone with Geraldine, she swears she will revenge herself on him. The maid persuades her to force the Count to agree to put the opera on; she will get her revenge by making her husband both jealous and indebted to her. Ottavia pretends to offer herself to the Count, but keeps delaying, playing music from the opera on the piano. She refuses to go to bed with him until he agrees to get it performed. Eventually he gives in. As he tries to kiss her, looking forward to a night of passion, Ottavia pretends to faint. The Count is forced to sit up with her for the rest of the night while she "recovers". Some months later the opera is performed to great acclaim. The principal characters meet once again in their true identities.1692, Salem, Massachusetts. John Proctor is the only member in the town's assembly who resists the attempts of the rich to gain more wealth on the expense of the poor farmers, thus incurring the wrath of deputy governor Danforth. Proctor's sternly puritanical wife, Elizabeth, is sick and has not shared his bed for months, and he was seduced by his maid, Abigail. When he ends his affair with her, Abigail and several other local girls turn to slave Tituba. Reverend Parris catches the girls in the forest as they partake in what appears to be witchcraft. Abigail and the rest deny it, telling that they have been bewitched. A wave of hysteria engulfs the town, and Danforth uses the girls' accusations to instigate a series of trials, during which his political enemies are accused of heresy and executed. When Abigail blames Elizabeth Proctor, the latter rejects John's pleas to defraud Abigail as an adulteress. Eventually, both Proctors are put on trial and refuse to sign a confession. The townspeople rebel, but not before John is hanged with other defendants; his pregnant wife has been spared. Elizabeth tells the angry crowd to let Abigail live.The script, by Garson Kanin, concerns a naive young woman named Gladys Glover who yearns for fame. Strolling through Central Park, she meets a young handsome man named Pete Sheppard . He is a maker of documentaries . He is taking brief shots of people in the park. He films Gladys feeding pigeons, and introduces himself. In a rapid piece of exposition, we learn that she has been in New York for two years, has just lost her job as a model of girdles because her hip size is 3/4" larger than it should be, and still has the $1000 which she "saved up." We learn that she is discouraged at having gotten nowhere in two years and that she wants to make a name for herself. It is clear to the audience that Pete is much taken with Gladys. He gets her address by offering to drop her a postcard when the documentary is finished so she can see herself in it. "Really?" she says. "I'd give my right arm to see myself in the movies." "You don't need to give me your right arm," says Lemmon, "just give me your right address." Pete encourages Gladys to follow her dreams: "Where there's a will there's a way, and where there's a way there is a will." They part. Wandering despondently, Gladys' attention is caught by a large billboard overlooking Columbus Circle, with the notice "This space for rent. Choice location. Inquire Horace Pfeiffer Co, 383 Madison Avenue." She fantasizes her name on the billboard. Gathering her nerve, she goes to 383 Madison Avenue to inquire. The naive Gladys asks for "Mr. Horace Puh-feiffer," pronouncing the letter P, and is humiliated by the receptionist, who corrects her pronunciation and tells her there is no Mr. Pfeiffer. However, the determined Gladys obtains an interview with a busy man conducting a telephone conversation, who brusquely tells her that the sign is available, demands to know "whom she represents," and finally says "I'm really too busy for this sort of thing." The spunky Gladys pulls $1000 in cash from her purse, complains that he is too "stuck up" to listen to her, asks "what sort of place treats people that way" and starts to leave. The representative relents and tells her that the sign is $210 per month, three months minimum. Gladys pays $630 in cash and arranges to have her name put on the billboard. Within a few days the sign is up and she is thrilled. It turns out, however, that the Adams Soap company has traditionally booked that sign, intended to book that sign, and is upset to learn that another client has obtained it. The Pfeiffer company calls her to a meeting where Evan Adams III  attempts to induce her to give up the sign by offering her more money. Gladys is simply not interested. She is called to another meeting at which they offer to give her six signs in exchange for that one. This time, she accepts. Now there are six huge signs in New York, one in lights, each saying simply "Gladys Glover." Meanwhile, Pete Sheppard has taken an apartment adjacent to hers, a move which does not seem to rouse Gladys' curiosity, and they become platonic friends. Sheppard is, however, exasperated by her fascination with her signs and her requests that he tour the city with her to see them. Citygoers are intrigued by the mysterious signs. Gladys shops in a department store , and when she gives her name, the word spreads quickly and dozens of people flock around to get the autograph of the famous Gladys Glover. Soon, she is being asked to appear on television shows. However, the round of publicity starts takes an unpleasant turn. Gladys, has of course explains that she obtained the signs simply in order to "make a name for herself." She does not seem to be aware that she is being treated as a freak or figure of fun. Evan Adams III decides, however, that she is ripe for exploitation as "the average American girl," and hires her to do a series of advertisements for Adams Soap. As she pursues what is becoming a lucrative career, relations between her and Peter Sheppard become strained. At the same time, Adams is showing an increasing interest in her. The situation reaches a crisis when Gladys breaks a date with Sheppard in order to attend what Adams says is a business conference to discuss a cross-country publicity tour. The conference turns out to be an attempted seduction. As Adams reaches to embrace Gladys, she accidentally or intentionally spills a full glass of champagne down the back of Adams neck, breaking the spell. Gladys says "I don't mind the way you're acting, exactly. What I mind is the way you give the idea you're sort of entitled." "Maybe I am," says Adams. "Oh, sure, if you want to make it into a sort of business proposition." "That's what you're doing, isn't it?" asks Adams. Gladys says "The way it looks to me, Mr. Adams, is that there are two sorts of people. The people who will do anything to make a name for themselves, and the people who will do almost anything." She walks out, saying "Soon there will be signs all over saying I'm the average American girl. That was your idea wasn't it? Well, I don't think the average American girl should do... this." She walks out. She arrives home to find a 16&nbsp;mm movie projector in her room with a note from Sheppard telling her to run it. A film plays, complete with titles and synchronized sound, entitled "Goodbye, Gladys," The charmingly self-deprecating Sheppard confesses that he loves Gladys, acknowledges that his profile is not as good looking as Adams, and says goodbye. Gladys' advertising career continues. She finds its emptiness more and more frustrating. She recalls Sheppard's frequent questions as to why she wants to be above the crowd instead of being happy being part of the crowd. We find Sheppard in a cage at a zoo, where he is making a documentary showing how the visitors appear to the animals. He coaches the crowd to react to him as if he were a chimpanzee and he jumps around in the cage, filming the crowd, as they throw him peanuts. Suddenly the crowd's attention is distracted. We here the sound of an airplane and the crowd saying "Oooh" and turning away from the cage. The puzzled Sheppard looks upward and see that the plane has skywritten the message "PETE CALL GLADYS PLEASE." He grins, the film cuts to Gladys and Pete driving in a car and discussing plans for the future. Gladys spots an empty billboard with a message "THIS SPACE FOR RENT. Apply Acme Realty Co." "What are you looking at?" asks Pete. "Nothing." says Gladys. "Absolutely nothing."The film was loosely based on the true story of a former inmate in a German asylum who became known as 'Anna Anderson' and whose story made headlines for decades. However, the Russian monarchist movement never backed Ms. Anderson, nor did she ever meet with the Dowager Empress, played by Hayes. The script plays with the question of Anna/Anastasia's identity. Ten years of turmoil have passed since the teenage Anastasia and her sisters and brother were presumably killed. Does the refugee Anna who has turned up in Paris have the bearing, speech, and intimate knowledge of the imperial family that the real grand duchess would have? Or is she merely an apt pupil of General Bounine , a recovering amnesiac with a striking resemblance who has been cleverly groomed by the émigré general to stake a claim to 10 million pounds left by the Tsar in an English bank? In a series of encounters with former familiars and members of the imperial court, Anna begins to display a confidence and style that astonish her skeptical interlocutors, yet retains our sympathy by seeming more interested in recovering her own identity than the imperial bank account. In a tour de force climactic meeting with the Empress in Copenhagen, Bergman and Hayes take the measure of each other, alternately projecting imperial self-possession and the anguish of family longing. Meanwhile Bounine has become increasingly jealous of the attentions the fortune-hunting Prince Paul pays to Anna. At a grand ball at which her engagement with Paul is to be announced, the Empress has a private word with Anna/Anastasia, who subsequently elopes with Bounine. While the film does not reveal whether Anna really is the Romanov princess, a series of subtle hints throughout appear to suggest that she is. The gradual realisation of her true identity is juxtaposed upon the romantic interest that develops within Bounine, who in one of his speeches declares to Anna / Anastasia that he cares for who she is and not what her name is. Hayes summons all her stage experience to deliver the celebrated last line, summing up the film's poignant exploration of identity and role-playing. Asked how she will explain the vanishing of her supposed granddaughter to a ballroom full of expectant guests, she declares, "I will tell them that the play is over, go home!" The film closes with the regal figure of the Dowager Empress on the arm of Prince Paul, descending the grand staircase.Two high school seniors from different social groups go on a date. He begins to fall for her when she resists his amorous advances and decides they should get married immediately. Both sets of parents object to the sudden nature of the proposal. He talks her into going to Mexico to get married, but they finally decide it is best to wait until they are older.Marie , a woman of considerable beauty, is distressed at her treatment by Roland, a criminal who is a part of a local syndicate. When Marie is introduced to the handsome stranger Georges, she falls in love with him instantly, much to the chagrin of Roland. When Roland's jealousy builds after a number of meetings between Marie and Georges, Roland decides to confront Georges behind a club where a number members of his syndicate watch. After Georges gains control of a knife that had been thrown between them to initiate the fight, George manages to stab Roland in the back after a brief scuffle, killing him almost instantly. When the police arrive at the scene everyone flees, including Marie, who seeks refuge away from the syndicate at a nearby village. Georges decides it is best to flee town. He is lured to a rendezvous with Marie by a note she sends. The two live an idyllic life in the nearby village, until Georges is brought word that a friend, Raymond, had been arrested for the murder of Roland. Félix, the leader of the syndicate, has placed blame on Raymond in an attempt to bring Georges out of hiding and win control of Marie. Not realizing this plan, Georges confesses to the police that he is the real killer. While being transported between jails, he breaks free with the help of a diversion by Marie. Georges immediately seeks out Félix to seek his revenge. When he finds him in the presence of the police, he kills him anyway, condemning himself in the process. With the two murders on his hands, Georges is sentenced to die by the guillotine while a broken Marie is forced to watch in horror as he is executed.Parrish, a Union Army ex-officer, plans to sell his land to Anchor Ranch and move east with his fiancee, Caroline, but the low price offered by Anchor's crippled owner, Lew Wilkison, and the outfit's bully-boy tactics make him think again. When one of Parrish's hands is murdered, he decides to stay and fight, utilising his war experience. Not all is well at Anchor with the owner's wife, Martha, carrying on with his brother, Cole, who also has a Mexican moll in town. Parrish eventually gets the upper hand, and when the Wilkisons' daughter, Judith, comes to understand what her family is like and what Parrish has been up against, she realizes they can join forces as peaceful neighbors and perhaps more.Ina Massine is an opera diva who divorced throat specialist Dr. Lincoln I. Bartlett three years ago. Nowadays, she regrets this decision and attempts to win back his affection. Lincoln, however, is engaged to Agnes Oglethorpe Young, the beautiful young daughter of his mentor Dr. Carleton Radwin Young. Nevertheless, Ina is determined to reconcile with Lincoln and grabs every chance on seducing him. Lincoln remains loyal to his fiancée, though, and soon grows irritated by Ina's attempts to impress him. On night of the premiere of her latest opera La Bohème, Ina is bothered with a sore throat and calls Dr. Young. Lincoln, who is replacing Dr. Young that night, suspects that Ina is faking. However, when he examines her, he diagnoses a tropic disease she had possibly got in South America. Ina ignores his diagnose and performs that night without any problems. The next morning, however, she is suddenly unable to speak. She goes to see Dr. Young, who diagnoses functional euphonia, a speaking disorder caused by shocking news. Young advises psychiatric help and tells Lincoln that a new love interest for Ina could solve the problem. Ina is assigned as Lincoln's client, much to Agnes' annoyance. Although Lincoln assures Agnes several times he has no feelings for his ex-wife, she remains suspicious of his connection with Ina. Lincoln contacts his friend Chris Bartlett, hoping he will be able to romance Ina. He sets up a date between the two, but Ina shows no interest in Chris, only able to think of Lincoln. Later that night, Ina is able to break through Lincoln's wall, convincing him to spend the night with her. They enjoy a dinner at a restaurant where they are spotted by some of Agnes' friends. On their way back home, Ina again attempts to seduce him. Although Lincoln does not reply to her, he seems to have softened up. That night, Lincoln is bothered with a nightmare in which Ina is killed. When he wakes up, he realizes he still loves his ex-wife. He goes to the room where she is staying to hug her, when Agnes and Chris suddenly come in. Agnes, feeling betrayed, breaks off the engagement, despite Lincoln's attempts to explain the situation. Ina, who had got back her voice when Lincoln softened up, announces she is fed up with the love triangle as well and storms out. She soon returns, however, and is told by Chris that Lincoln is bothered with functional euphonia too. He regains his voice to tell Ina he loves her and, in the end, they kiss.Rodriguez and Dauden play sisters and Arenas and Marzan best friends who go abroad for to Italy for work. Arenas becomes angry when Rodriguez sends a letter that she is pregnant.Set in New York City's garment district, the story focuses on ambitious model and fashion designer Harriet Boyd, production manager Sam Cooper, and salesman Teddy Sherman, who leave their firm to start their own business that specializes in $10.95 dresses. Their plans temporarily are derailed when Harriet's mother refuses to give her the insurance payment the family received when her father died, having promised it to Harriet's younger sister Marge for her wedding. Harriet dupes Marge and her fiance Ray into giving her the money, and Sherboyco Dresses opens for business. Teddy, who has fallen in love with Harriet, is dismayed when she flirts with lecherous buyer Mr. Savage during a business dinner, so he proposes marriage. She declines his offer, telling him she enjoys her freedom. Her refusal prompts Teddy to try to back out of their partnership, but he discovers their contract is ironclad. Harriet begins dating J.F. Noble, the owner of a chain of upscale department stores, who wants her to quit and work exclusively for him. Her uncertainty puts her on edge, and when Teddy discusses her change in attitude, she claims she is stressed by overwork and wants to quit. Teddy repeats his offer of marriage and this time Harriet considers accepting. She visits Noble to decline his offer, but Teddy interrupts their meeting, misunderstands her motives, and mistakenly believes her behavior was a ploy designed to lead the way to her departure from Sherboyco. Heartbroken and angry, Teddy departs, and soon after leaves town for a sales trip. During his absence, Harriet shifts money from Sherboyco to a new company she is founding, stops production on Sherboyco's dresses, and begins designing for Noble's department stores. Unaware what has happened, Teddy continues to take orders for Sherboyco's popular low-cost women's wear while on the road. Not until buyer Hermione Griggs contacts him about an order she has not received does he learn about Harriet's deception. She tries to convince her Sherboyco partners it is in their best interest to align with her at Noble's company, but Sam and Teddy prefer to declare bankruptcy rather than join forces with the competition. Harriet prepares to sail to Paris with Noble, but at the last moment she realizes her commitment to Sam and Teddy is too important to ignore. She returns to Sherboyco, where she admits she loves Teddy and asks him and Sam to forgive her.The story tells the story of Harry Fabian , a two-bit hustler who dreams of the good life provided by money. He's tried a lot of go-nowhere schemes but he has what he believes is a chance of a lifetime. He plans to take control of the professional wrestling game from promoter and underworld boss Kristo  by manipulating him through his father, the retired wrestling superstar Gregorius .Russ Ward is a Broadway producer who has been out of town. On returning to New York, everybody wants a piece of him: ex-wife Kathryn Ward, hard-drinking playwright Jeremiah "Mac" MacDonald, magazine reporter Roy Morton, business manager Miles Atwood and lawyer Charles Montgomery, one after another. The main topic of discussion is "Give Me Your Hand," the new play Russ is producing. The reporter hears it's in trouble, but Russ says that's untrue. It will be ready for its Boston tryout right on schedule, he vows. Kathryn keeps reminding him of his age, which Russ likes to lie about. Russ tells loyal young secretary Ellie Brown it probably is time to retire, because this new show is a mess. He and writer Mac have a story about a middle-aged man romancing a 22-year-old woman and just can't seem to make it work. Ellie is in love with Russ, so much so she proposes marriage to him. That gives him an idea. What if the play had the young woman pursuing the man? That way he wouldn't seem such a lecher. A delighted Mac rewrites it and everyone involved works on it at the Long Island mansion where the former actress Kathryn lives, partly thanks to her alimony from Russ. A rich backer named Bacos wants in, but Atwood says his money isn't needed because an anonymous angel is financing the whole show. Ellie reads the woman's part and strikes everybody as perfect for it. Gordon Reynolds gets the male lead and promptly falls for Ellie, but she's being led on by Russ, who doesn't discourage her love for him. The show's so-so in Boston and a few of them panic, but Russ insists it'll be a hit on Broadway and, sure enough, he's right. Now he needs to let down Ellie gently, and next thing he knows, she and Gordon have gotten married. Ellie returns exasperated because Gordon wants to give up theater and move to Montana. She strips and leaps into Russ's bed so Gordon can catch her there and demand an annulment. Everybody gets every misunderstanding sorted out. The newlyweds decide to compromise, and Russ, who finally has figured out that Kathryn was the anonymous angel who financed the show, is ready to give their relationship a second act.The widowed Eurasian doctor Han Suyin  falls in love with the married-but-separated American correspondent Mark Elliott  in Hong Kong, during the period of China's Civil War in the late 1940s. Although they briefly find happiness together, she is ostracized by the greater Chinese community. After losing her position at the hospital, Suyin and her adopted daughter go to live with a friend while Mark is on an assignment during the Korean War. They write to each other constantly. However on the same day that Suyin receives a letter from Mark, another friend drops by with a newspaper saying that Elliot has been killed by an aircraft bomb. Distraught, Suyin climbs the hill to the tree where they said their last goodbyes, half hoping to see him there again. When she realizes that he is truly gone, she falls to her knees sobbing. In the final scene, a butterfly, similar to the one seen on Elliot's typewriter while at the front, lands on the tree in front of Suyin. She composes herself and walks away.When elderly Mr. Bush  is appointed justice of the peace, he starts marrying couples on Christmas Eve. However, his appointment is only valid on the first of January. Two years later, this issue becomes known, when one of the six couples he married files divorce. To avoid a bigger scandal, the remaining five couples are informed that they are not really married.<ref name http://www.allmovie.com/movie/were-not-married-v53686 |titleAllMovie |date2012-03-04}} The film then shows how the couples react on the news: * Couple #1: is Steve Gladwyn  and Ramona , a husband-and-wife radio team whose huggy-kissy behavior on the air conceals the fact that they'd dearly love to cut each other's throats. * Couple #2: consists of Jeff Norris  and his Beauty contest-happy spouse Annabel , who's just won the "Mrs. Mississippi" pageant. * Couple #3: is Hector Woodruff ([[Paul Douglas  and Katie , who ran out of things to say to each other long ago. * Couple #4: is millionaire Freddie Melrose  and his gold-digging young bride Eve , who intends to divorce him and make off with his millions. * Couple #5: is young GI Willie Fisher , about to be shipped out and his pregnant wife Patsy . In the end, all but Couple #4 get remarried.A prospector named Jonathan Harvey ([[Paul Kelly , whose faithful companion is a rough collie named Shep, looks after the family of his late partner, Martha Blake  and her son Tommy ([[Gary Gray . After years of digging in the hills of California , he finally strikes gold. However, before he can share it with the Blakes, his greedy partner Lin Taylor  kills Jonathan and attempts to lay claim on the gold. He poisons Shep, who nearly dies, and nearly kills Tommy, but ultimately Shep recovers and leads Lin into the mountains, where he falls off a cliff to his death.A married 19-year-old  named Marie Allen is sent to prison, after a botched armed robbery attempt with her equally young husband, Tom . While receiving her prison physical, she finds out that she is two months pregnant. Despite the hardships she is put through under Matron Evelyn Harper , she gives birth to a healthy baby and wants to "temporarily" grant full custody to her mother. The intent is to get the baby back after she is released. However, her mother informs Marie that her callous step-father has decided that under no circumstances will he allow the baby into his house, and she uses the excuses that she's "too old" and "hasn't a penny in [her] name" as reasons why she can't leave him and help Marie. The prison forces her to permanently give the child up for adoption. Marie never sees her baby again. After her exposure to hardened criminals and sadistic prison guards, by the end of the film she leaves prison a hardened woman with debts to the criminals who helped get her released from jail.Richard Dadier  is a teacher at North Manual High School, an inner-city school where many of the pupils, led by student Gregory Miller , frequently engage in anti-social behavior. Dadier makes various attempts to engage the students' interest in education, challenging both the school staff and the pupils. He is subjected to violence as well as duplicitous schemes; he first suspects Miller, but later realizes that Artie West  is the perpetrator, and challenges him in a classroom showdown.The film opens with Marziana  dancing and singing in the public square of Baghdad, her faithful aide Dhowlat  playing the dholak. Marziana is an orphan and sings and dances on the streets to earn a living. As the song ends, the tyrant Sher Khan, commander of the unpopular ruler Amir Kasim Khan  tries to force Marziana to come with him to be inducted into the king’s harem, but she resists him with all her might. She is rescued by Ali Baba , who fights with Sher Khan and vanquishes him. Marziana and Dowlat find refuge in Alibaba’s house. Alibaba is a poor woodcutter and lives with his sister Ayisha  and servant Bulbul . Marziana learns that they are the siblings of the king, who had driven them out at the instigation of his cruel wife Salima . Marziana and Alibaba find themselves falling in love. One day, when Alibaba goes to cut wood as usual, he happens to notice the leader of 40 thieves opening a mysterious cave just by saying "Andha ka kasam, Abu ka hukum, Thirandidu Sesame". After the thieves leave, Alibaba secretly enters the cave after memorizing the pass code. He is astounded to see many treasures found in the cave. He slowly collects some of them and brings them home. Seeing the fabulous wealth that Alibaba has brought home from the hideout of the robbers, Marziana is seized by sudden insecurity and doubt. She suspects that this sudden affluence would change Alibaba and he would not remain loyal to her anymore. After realizing that all the wealth is real, she reconciles with Alibaba. Amir Kasim wallows in jealousy when he hears of the sudden fortune of Alibaba, and is determined to ferret out the source of Alibaba’s riches. Under Salima’s guidance, he invites Alibaba and his household for a feast. Cunningly obtaining the secret of the robbers’ cave from Alibaba, he then orders Alibaba’s arrest, accusing him falsely of attempted murder. The ever-resourceful Marziana pretends to hail Kasim’s order. She declares that Alibaba had been unfaithful to her and he deserved this retribution. And taking a knife, she sings this song, acting as though she means to kill Alibaba. But as she nears Alibaba at the end of the song, in a swift movement of the knife she cuts the ropes that bind his hands. Alibaba is free and after a thrilling sword fight in which he is naturally the victor, they make good their escape. Kassim, having memorized the secret message to enter the cave, he goes there and in great greed, starts collecting many treasures. Shortly, he forgets the message, and is left trapped. The thieves come, and kill Kassim for entering their secret cave. Alibaba visits the cave, and is shocked to see his brother dead. He takes away Kassim's body and after the latter's death is publicly announced, Alibaba is declared the king of Baghdad. The entire city rejoices, as Alibaba is known for his noble qualities. Marziana greets him with a song in praise. Meanwhile, the 40 thieves return to their cave and see that Kassim's body is missing. Realizing that someone else has entered their cave, the thieves start their search for the mystery person. From the cobbler Gulam’s  assertion that the woodcutter Alibaba had become wealthy overnight, the leader of the thieves Abu Hussain  guesses that it is Alibaba who has discovered the secret of his cave. However, he kills the cobbler after finding out the secret. Having his men hidden inside barrels, Abu Hussain comes to Alibaba’s house disguised as an oil merchant seeking shelter for the night. By happenstance Marziana notices Abu Hussain whispering to his man hidden in the barrels and realizes his true identity. Dancing at a banquet that Alibaba hosts in honour of the guest, Marziana sings this song even as per prior arrangement each time she sounds the gong while dancing, Dowlat and Bulbul roll the barrels one by one into the swirling waters. Abu Hussain calls his men who were hiding in the barrels, but when they don't come, Marziana reveals that she overheard his conversation with them and eventually had them killed. She reveals that Abu Hussain is present and he also accepts it. This leads to a fight between him and Alibaba, which results in Abu Hussain kidnapping Marziana and fleeing to the secret cave. Alibaba chases him and reaches the cave, where he wins the battle by tossing Abu Hussain into a pond of boiling red water . After Marziana is rescued, everyone becomes prosperous once more.Victoria  was attacked in her youth by a Catholic priest. Years later she is a famous prostitute and hate all the Catholic Church-related. She fell in love with a priest , a hidden priest during the Cristero War.The story sets in the Amsterdam of the thirties, from teacher Bruis' point of view. It centers around Cis Vrijmoeth, an oaf who never sees father because he is a sailor and who is neglected by his mother. Time after time he is expelled from school. Only teacher Bruis can really handle and restrain the boy. In an fit of rage and fear, Ciske kills his mother with a knife and he is sent to a youth detention center. In the end, his father returns from the sea and decides to take care of him, together with his wife Aunt Jans.A miserly man cheats his wife one night. A series from misunderstandings ensue that will entirely change his life.Set in 1912, a dinner party held by the upper-class Birling family is interrupted by Police Inspector Poole, investigating the suicide of a lower class girl Eva Smith whose death is linked to each family member.{{cite news}} In the original play, the Inspector's name was Inspector Goole.{{cite web}}Wealthy American Jervis Pendleton III  has a chance encounter at a French orphanage with a cheerful 18-year-old resident, Julie Andre . He anonymously pays for her education at a New England college. She writes letters to her mysterious benefactor regularly, but he never writes back. Her nickname for him, "Daddy Long Legs", is taken from the description of him given to Andre by some of her fellow orphans who see his shadow as he leaves their building. Several years later, he visits her at school, still concealing his identity. Despite their large age difference, they soon fall in love.Veeran was born to the chieftain of Varanavasi, but the baby was born with an unlucky mark destined to bring doom to the state. Acting as per the dictates of the astrologer, baby is abandoned in the forest. A cobbler and his wife discover the baby in the forest, and bring him up as their son. Veeran grows up to be a brave and noble youth. He chances to save Bommi, the princess of Thottiyam from being drowned in the Cauvery. Bommi falls in love with him. Though Veeran doesn’t reciprocate initially, he perceives the depth of her love gradually after Bommi comes riding on an elephant dressed as a man and saves Veeran from being trampled to death. Bommi’s uncle, the cowardly Narasappan finds his schemes of marrying Bommi falling apart. Citing Veeran’s low birth, Narasappan causes the lovers undue hardships. Due to opposition from Bommi's father, Veeran arrives and carries the princess away. Finally the King of Tiruchi, from whom Narasappan had sought assistance, declares that Veeran and Bommi are not guilty of any crime and sanctifies their union in wedlock. And being impressed with Veeran’s valour, the King appoints him as the commander of the army. Thirumalai Nayakar of Madurai appeals to Tiruchi to help curb the menace of a gang of robbers that was terrorizing the people of Madurai. Veeran is sent to Madurai and he is appointed Nayakar’s commander. There he sees Vellaiyamma, the beautiful court dancer and is impressed with her virtues and skills. Suitable disguised, Veeran and Vellaiyamma gain entry into the Azhagar Malai den of the thieves. With the help of hidden soldiers, they manage to capture most of the robbers and recover the plundered loot. Nayakar, who wants to make Vellaiyamma his concubine, is furious when he hears that Vellaiyamma is in love with Veeran. And his mind further poisoned by the evil Narasappan and his former commander Kutilan, the King accuses Veeran of treason and orders a hand and leg of Veeran to be severed. Before the sentence is carried out Veeran recognizes in the crowd the leader of the thieves Sangilikaruppan, and puts him to death in a quick encounter. Satisfied that he has now accomplished his mission, Veeran subjects himself to the mutilation. And as his soul leaves his body soon after, Bommi and Vellaiyamma unite with him in the heavenly abode.Singing-and-dancing stage star Julie  is told that husband Marty  is reported missing in action during Korea. After a long waiting period, she makes plans to marry Vernon , who is Marty's best friend. After the marriage, Marty  turns up at one of Julie's shows. Upon discovering Julie's new marriage, Marty demands his rights as her first husband. Julie soon finds that she is legally married to both Marty and Vernon. She soon realises that she must choose who she wants to be with, if only to avoid being branded a bigamist. But Julie loves the idea of having two husbands and so she decides to try to live with them both, to the annoyance and disapproval of Marty and Vernon who both know that her idea will not work out. Meanwhile, Julie's close friend Gwen  has a secret crush on Marty and hopes to get with him, if only Julie could make her up mind as to who she wants. After a long serious decision and a talk with them both, Julie decides that she is more in love with Marty and she ditches Vernon, who has now fallen for Gwen.To forget the tragedy Lambert heads to South America . Heading there as well is singer Clare Shepperd, using the alias Clare Sinclair . She's running away as well—not from her memories—but from her boyfriend Vic Spilato, a vicious gangster who just had his bookkeeper Edward Dawson  murdered and is under investigation by the U.S. Senate. Lambert takes up fighting once again and, as he prepares to fight his south-of-the-border challenger named Rivera, Shepperd seeks out her boss, a bar owner named Felipe, and sells him a valuable pair of earrings. She then watches as Lambert wins the match. Newly arrived to South America is Cappy Gordon , Spilato's cold-blooded button-man looking for Clare. When he finds her he expresses his love and tells her that he'll spare her life if she runs off with him. Instead, Clare jets and heads for Felipe's bar. By threatening to expose Felipe to Cappy, Clare convinces him to persuade Lambert to meet her at the secluded Posado de Don Pascual. There, Clare encourages Lambert's romantic interest, but does not tell him about Cappy nor Spilato. They take a tramway to La Cumbre, an isolated mountaintop village, and the couple enjoy a stroll through the town, unaware that Cappy knows their whereabouts. They watch a sexually provocative dance, performed by a young man and woman, whose older husband Vasco  drags her off in a jealous rage and kills her. Upset by the event, Clare and Lambert head toward the hotel where they spend the night, and in the moonlight, he kisses her. Lambert reveals that he's aware of Spilato and Clare confesses that she's attracted to him but isn't free of her past. The climax of the movie takes place on an aerial cable car high above a deep abyss which malfunctions midway through its journey, threatening to send Lambert, Shepperd, and Gordon smashing into the rocks below.Antonio Trabbi is a greedy old man with a very rough personality and obsessed by money. He deprecates charity and love and has not friends or love interests, being lonely and avoided by people. During Christmas Eve he is visited by the ghost of his former business partner, who warns him about his life-style and announces the visit of three spiritis, who will show Antonio the past, present and future Christmas days. During the night, the three spirits actually appear at Trabbi, showing him his sad past, the bad reputation he has with every people and the bad outcome of his actions, which will lead him to a lonely death and to terrible punishments in Hell. When Trabbi wakes up he is heavily distressed by the visions and eager to change his life, starting with that very same Christmas Day.Valentine "Snakeskin" Xavier, a guitar-playing drifter, flees New Orleans in order to avoid arrest. He finds work in a small-town five-and-dime owned by an embittered older woman known as Lady Torrance, whose vicious husband Jabe lies on his deathbed in their apartment above the store. Both alcoholic nymphomaniac Carol Cutrere and simple housewife Vee Talbott set their sights on the newcomer, but Val succumbs to the charms of Lady, who plans to set him up with a refreshment bar. Sheriff Talbott, a friend of Jabe, threatens to kill Val if he remains in town, but he chooses to stay when he discovers Lady is pregnant. His decision sparks Jabe's jealousy and leads to tragic consequences.An ex-lounge singer  revisiting Las Vegas with her shady husband  encounters a cop  with whom she'd had an affair years before, and who comes in handy during the subsequent fast-paced mayhem. Hoagy Carmichael portrays Happy, the eccentric pianist at the bar where the singer used to work.The film follows several characters both black, white as well as mixed. Maxwell Fleury  is a white plantation owner's son who suffers from an inferiority complex and makes rash decisions to prove his worth. He lives with his beautiful wife, Sylvia . Maxwell is tormented by extreme jealousy of his wife, and is envious of his younger sister Jocelyn . Jocelyn is being courted by Evan Templeton , a war hero visiting the Governor of the island, his father Lord Templeton . The film also follows David Boyeur , a young black man emerging as a powerful politician representing the common people and seen as a threat to the white ruling class. Mavis Norman , a woman from the elite white class strikes up a romantic interest in Boyeur and much of the film explores the tension between these two. Finally, the film takes a look at the interracial romance between Margot Seaton , a black drug store clerk, and Denis Archer , aide to the Governor. Other characters include Hilary Carson  who Maxwell Fleury thinks is having an affair with his wife; Colonel Whittingham , the head of police, who investigates the murder of Hilary Carson central to the plot; a journalist named Bradshaw ; and finally Julian Fleury  and his wife  who are both hiding secrets from their children. The characters and their relationships with each other are all shown to be complex and the issues being addressed were rather taboo for 1957. Furthermore, the film can be enjoyed for the lush, beautiful scenery and unpredictable plot dynamics. Belafonte breaks his character to sing a calypso title song.The film stars Silvana Mangano as Giovanna Masetti, a poor Venetian who is admired by the crafty croupier Mario Rossi  and the rich count Enrico Marisoni . Giovanna lives out a dream to become a dancer and moves to Rome. She returns six months later to the competing affections of Mario and Enrico, resulting in a choice between the two and the dramatic finale.An American family, Dr. Ben McKenna , his wife Jo  and their son Hank ([[Christopher Olsen  are vacationing in Morocco. On a bus from Casablanca to Marrakesh, they befriend a Frenchman named Louis Bernard , who is friendly enough, but Jo becomes suspicious at his many questions and evasive answers, and thinks he is hiding something. Bernard offers to take the McKennas out to dinner that night but suddenly cancels when a sinister-looking man arrives at the door of the McKenna's hotel room claiming to be looking for another guest's room. Later, while dining at a local restaurant, the McKennas meet an English couple, the Draytons, who strike up a conversation with the McKennas, who are surprised to see Bernard arrive at the restaurant and sit at another table while apparently ignoring the group. The next day, while exploring a busy outdoor marketplace in Marrakesh with the Draytons, the McKennas see a man in Arab clothing being chased by police. After being stabbed in the back, the man approaches Ben, who discovers the man is really Bernard in disguise. Before dying, Bernard whispers into Ben's ear that a foreign statesman will be murdered in London very soon, and that he must tell the authorities there about 'Ambrose Chappell'. Mrs. Drayton offers to return Hank to the hotel while Dr. and Mrs. McKenna are questioned by the authorities. The interrogator reveals that Bernard was a French Intelligence agent on assignment in Morocco. While at the police station, Ben receives a phone call from a mysterious man who informs him that Hank has been kidnapped but will not be harmed if the McKennas say nothing to the police about Bernard's last words. After arriving in London the McKennas are told by Scotland Yard Inspector Buchanan that Bernard was indeed a spy trying to uncover an assassination plot in Morocco, and that they should contact him if they hear from the kidnappers. Leaving friends in their hotel room, the McKennas follow a false lead resulting from their assumption that 'Ambrose Chappell' is a person, but finally track the kidnappers to a church named 'Ambrose Chapel', the kidnappers' base of operations where Mr. Drayton, posing as a minister, is leading a service. While Jo calls police, Drayton ends the service early and Ben confronts him and is knocked out. The Draytons take Hank to a foreign embassy just before Jo arrives with the police at the seemingly deserted chapel. Jo learns Buchanan has gone to a concert at the Royal Albert Hall and goes there to get his help. There she sees the man who mistakenly came to her door in Morocco. When he threatens her son if she interferes, she realises he is the assassin sent to kill the foreign Prime Minister  now also at the concert hall. Ben escapes the locked chapel and tracks Jo to the hall, where she points out the assassin to him. Ben frantically searches the balcony boxes for the killer, who is waiting for a cymbal crash to mask the gunshot. But when Jo sees the barrel of the assassin's gun appear from behind a curtain, she screams just as the cymbals crash, causing him to miss his mark and merely wound his target. Ben finds and struggles with the assassin, who falls to his death from the balcony. The grateful Prime Minister invites the McKennas to meet with him at his London embassy. The McKennas learn that the Draytons have taken refuge in the Prime Minister's embassy, where Hank is being held, and where the ambassador has led the plot to kill his own Prime Minister. Hatching a plan to find their son, Ben and Jo arrive at the residence and are welcomed as heroes for having saved the Prime Minister's life. Jo loudly sings a song Hank is familiar with so that he will hear his mother's voice and hopefully respond to it. Mrs. Drayton, who is guarding Hank but is unwilling to harm him, tells him to whistle along with the song, which draws Ben to the room where he is being held. Mr. Drayton catches them and tries to escape with the two as hostages, but is struck by Ben and falls down the stairs and is killed when his gun fires accidentally. The McKennas return to their now-sleeping friends in their hotel room, where Ben says, "I'm sorry we were gone so long, but we had to go over and pick up Hank."Sherry Conley  is a model who is in prison for a crime she did not knowingly commit. She is offered a deal for her freedom by U.S. attorney Lloyd Hallett  if she will testify as a witness in the trial of mobster Benjamin Costain . Hallett hides her in a hotel under the protection of a squad of detectives led by Lt. Vince Striker , where she stalls making a final decision while she enjoys expensive meals from room service. Despite the presence of the prison matron escort Willoughby , sparks begin to fly between cop and potential witness. Through his corrupt inside contacts, Costain finds out where Conley is being kept. She survives an assassination attempt when Striker kills the assailant, but Willoughby is shot and seriously injured. Costain and his thugs grab Striker, who is revealed to be one of Costain's insiders. Costain has learned that Conley is being transferred to jail, where Striker will have to kill Conley himself if he does not arrange another attempt at the hotel. He is told to leave a window unlocked for another killer. Conley remains uncooperative, especially after Hallett attempts to use her sister to persuade her. Inadvertently, Striker almost reveals his duplicity to Hallett, but a phone call to Hallett interrupts. Willoughby has died in the hospital. Conley, who shared a respect for and friendship with Willoughby, then agrees to testify against Costain. Striker, who cares for Conley, fails to dissuade her and reluctantly proceeds with the plan. Hallett returns to escort Conley to jail moments before the killer strikes. Talking with Striker while she changes her clothes in another room, Hallett's banter brings a jumpy Striker to a breaking point. Striker abruptly kicks open her door and saves Conley, but at the cost of his own life. The opened window tells Conley and Hallett that he had set up her murder but changed his mind. Conley takes the stand at Costain's trial, giving her occupation as "gang buster".The film dramatises events leading up to the 1857 trial of an otherwise respectable young woman, Madeleine Smith, , for the murder of her draper's assistant lover, Emile L'Angelier . The trial produced the uniquely Scottish verdict of "not proven", which left Madeleine a free woman. The film begins with the purchase of a house in Glasgow by a wealthy middle class Victorian family. Their eldest daughter, Madeleine, chooses to have for her own the bedroom in the basement. Here she will have easy access to the servants' entrance, and will be able to entertain her lover, Frenchman Emile L'Angelier, without the knowledge of her family. The relationship continues, and the couple become secretly engaged, but L'Angelier begins to press Madeleine to reveal his existence to her father in order that they can marry. Madeleine, frightened of her authoritarian father, is reluctant to do so and eventually visits L'Angelier in his rooms and says she will run away with him and marry him rather than face telling her father the truth. L'Angelier, however, says that he could never marry her in this way, and Madeleine realises that he does not love her for herself but rather that he sees her as a means to recover his position in society. She tells him that their relationship is at an end and asks him to send her letters back. During the time that she has been seeing L'Angelier, Madeleine's father has been encouraging her to accept the attentions of a wealthy society gentleman, William Minnoch,  and after having broken her engagement with L'Angelier, she tells Mr Minnoch that she will accept his marriage proposal. Her family are delighted, but L'Angelier visits the house again and threatens to show her father the compromising letters in his possession unless she continues to see him. Saying nothing of her new engagement, Madeleine reluctantly agrees. Some weeks after this, L'Angelier is taken very ill, and although he recovers, he later has another attack of the same illness and this time dies from it. He is found to have died from arsenic poisoning, and L'Angelier's friend points the finger of suspicion at Madeleine, who is found to have had arsenic in her possession at the time of L'Angelier's death. The remainder of the film covers the court case, at the end of which the jury bring the verdict of not proven, a uniquely Scottish verdict which releases Madeleine from custody as neither guilty nor not guilty.Sister Mary Bonaventure is in charge of the hospital ward of a convent in the county of Norfolk, England. She is troubled by her own sister's suicide, which she confides to her Mother Superior. A torrential rain closes nearby roads, causing Sergeant Melling of the police to bring condemned murderer Valerie Carns there. She is being taken to prison. Valerie was convicted of poisoning her brother Jason, a pianist. Jason's physician, Dr. Jeffreys, is head of the hospital where Sister Mary now works. Valerie still proclaims her innocence, but Jeffreys insists that she gave Jason a fatal overdose of his medicine. A photograph of Jason clearly disturbs Isabel Jeffreys, the doctor's wife. He gives her a sedative. Valerie appeals to Sister Mary to bring her fiance, Sidney Kingham, here to the convent to see her. A servant tells Sister Mary about the sadistic behavior of Jason Carns and produces a love letter to him, clearly written by Isabel. Mother Superior is upset by Sister Mary's meddling. She burns the letter. The nun still intends to tell Melling the police sergeant what she knows. Dr. Jeffreys is the one who gave Jason the fatal dose, and he might be slowly poisoning Isabel as well. He lures Sister Mary to a bell tower, where he attacks her. She rings the bell. Sidney hears it, rushes to her aid and overpowers Jeffreys, who is arrested by Melling. Sister Mary's faith is restored, believing the rain that delivered Valerie to her to be divine intervention.When printer John R. Hodges  is forced to retire at age 65 because of a company policy, he decides to do something about it. Dyeing his hair black, he poses as Harold P. Cleveland, the president of his former employer's parent company and goes on an inspection tour of his old workplace, with the firm's nervous, mystified executives in tow. While walking around the plant, Hodges runs into Joe Elliott , the boyfriend of his granddaughter Alice , and winks at him to let him in on the joke. Afterward, Hodges complains about the lack of experienced older employees, causing company president Louis McKinley  to promise to rescind the retirement policy and rehire all those affected by it within the past year. However, before he can depart, Hodges finds that McKinley has arranged for him to address the local Chamber of Commerce. Hodges is up to the challenge, delivering a rousing speech about the virtues of the older worker. He receive a standing ovation, the newspapers praise him, and even the stock market rises on the optimism generated. Hodges is taken to dinner by McKinley and his neglected wife Lucille . McKinley, it turns out, is more interested in his curvaceous private secretary Harriet . Hodges has a wonderful time, dancing the night away with Lucille. Swept away by his compliments and attention, she fancies herself in love with him. Later that night, she tells her dumbfounded husband that she wants a divorce. Meanwhile, Joe is unable to convince anybody that Cleveland is actually an impostor. Frank Erickson , his rival for a promotion, and the entire Hodges family - son George , daughter-in-law Della , and Alice - all think Joe is crazy. However, when Hodges returns home with his dyed hair, Joe is vindicated. Since Hodges will be exposed anyway, Della proposes that Joe turn him in so that he can get the promotion, but Joe refuses to do it. The next day, Erickson finally believes Joe and tries to warn their mutual boss Horace Gallagher , but Gallagher thinks Erickson is mentally unstable and gives the promotion to Joe. This enables Joe to finally propose to Alice. Meanwhile, the real Harold Cleveland  is in an awkward position. The speech has done wonders for his and his company's image and even raised the price of the company's stock, but he is unsure of his impostor's motives. When McKinley discovers Hodges' identity and informs Cleveland, he decides to pay him a visit. Lucille gets there first, but Hodges tells her he will not come between a man and his wife, and that he suspects she is still in love with her husband. McKinley barges in and apologizes to his wife; the happy couple kiss and make up. When Cleveland meets Hodges, he is reassured that the old man has no sinister intentions. Cleveland is so impressed that he offers Hodges a job advising him on public relations, but gets turned down.Calamity Jane  rides into Deadwood, South Dakota on the stagecoach. The local saloon bar, the Golden Garter, sends for beautiful women to appear on the stage and entertain the residents of a town with few females. Unfortunately, the men are anything but pleased when the latest "woman" turns out to be a man named Francis Fryer ([[Dick Wesson , who does a stage act in drag  and goes under the name Frances Fryer. The saloon owner was misled by the girlish-sounding name when reading an advertisement in the newspaper. The men begin to storm out. Calamity, thinking quick in all the panic, vows to get them the one woman they are all drooling over: singer Adelaid Adams , who is in Chicago. The Golden Garter receives a letter from Adams that she wouldn't be seen dead in that town but Calamity is still determined to bring her. Wild Bill Hickok  laughs at the idea and tells Calamity that the night Adams steps on the stage, he will come to the opening dressed as a Sioux squaw lugging a papoose. Calamity travels to Chicago, where Adams is giving a farewell performance {she was on her way to Europe directly after the performance} Adelaid, sick of the 'primitive' Chicago, gives her costumes to her maid, Katie Brown , who dreams of becoming a stage singer. She tries on one of the dresses and starts to sing. When Calamity walks in, she mistakes Katie for Adelaid. Katie takes advantage of the error and poses as Adelaid Adams to make her dream come true. The ride back to Deadwood is rocky, as they are chased by Indians. Later, when Katie gives her first performance, Calamity says she didn't sound that way in Chicago. When Calamity tells Katie to sing out, she bursts into tears and admits that she is not Adelaid Adams. The Golden Garter falls silent. Everyone present is on the verge of rioting, but Calamity fires a shot into the air and defends Katie. They allow Katie to carry on, and her performance wins them over. On the balcony above, Bill Hickok, dressed as an Indian woman, ropes Calamity and hangs her high and dry. Calamity and Katie become good friends, and Katie moves into Calamity's cabin with her. At first the cabin is shabby and in disrepair but Katie suggests they fix it up with the help of a "Woman's Touch". In order to attract Lieutenant Danny Gilmartin , the man she's madly in love with, Calamity dresses, looks and acts more like a lady. One day, Danny and Wild Bill Hickok  pay a visit to Calamity's cabin. Katie manages to lure Bill out of the cabin for a few minutes; while alone with Danny, she tells him straight out that Calamity loves him and that she, Katie is trying to stay away from him in return for her appreciation of Calamity's friendliness. However, Danny tells Katie he is not interested in Calamity. Later, Katie tells the two men that Calamity has changed and had a makeover proving she will be accepted at a local ball the following weekend. They draw straws and Danny wins, meaning he'll go with Katie. Now looking more like a lady, Calamity pretends to be fine with the arrangement but is stung when Danny gives her a soft kiss on the forehead. On the way to the ball, all the attendants riding in their wagons sing about the beauty of the Black Hills of South Dakota. Calamity becomes increasingly jealous while watching Katie and Danny dance together. They adjourn to the garden where, as Danny holds her and moves in for a kiss, Katie can no longer resist him. Betrayed, Calamity fires a gunshot near Katie's location in the ballroom and everybody looks at her in horror. Back at the cabin, Calamity throws out Katie's things and threatens to shoot her if she ever sees her again, but the scene ends with Calamity in floods of tears. Calamity later confronts Katie while she is performing, and warns her to get out of town. But Katie is not intimidated. She borrows a gun from one of the cowboys, and tells Calamity to hold up her glass. Taunting her about being too afraid, she boldly holds it up. A gunshot finally rings out, and the glass falls from Calamity's hand, but it wasn't Katie who fired; it was Bill, who lets Katie take all the credit. Humiliated, Calamity storms out. But before she can mount her horse, Bill grabs her, throws her onto his horse-drawn cart and rides off. In the woods, Bill tries to talk some sense into Calamity, and reveals that he shot the glass out of her hand to teach her a lesson and that scaring Katie out of town would not stop Danny from loving her. Calamity is heartbroken, and reveals she was crazy about Danny , while Bill admits that he was in love with Katie. Calamity tells Bill there won't be another man like Danny, not for her, however she and Bill end up in a passionate embrace and kiss, and she realizes it was he she loved all along. And when Bill asks her what happened to that lieutenant she was telling him about, she answers "I've never heard of him." The sun rises on a new day where a much happier Calamity sings "Secret Love" before she rides into town, but when she talks to the people, they just ignore her. She finds that Katie decided alone to leave for Chicago, feeling guilty about betraying her best friend. Danny is furious with Calamity for driving Katie out of town and demands she listen to him read a note Katie left. Calamity leaps back onto her horse and chases after the stagecoach, eventually catching up with it. She tells Katie she isn't in love with Danny and is marrying Bill, and the two women become friends again. A double wedding follows. When Bill finds Calamity's gun under her wedding dress, she jokes it's just in case any more actresses roll in from Chicago. The movie ends with the two happy couples riding out of town on the stage.For music, lyrics and libretto of subsequent stage play and musical adapted after the Warner Bros Film, also see: Vocal score- "Calamity Jane " Amateur Operatic Version Warner Chappell Music Ltd copyright 2006 by Faber Music Ltd . Libretto- "Calamity Jane A Musical Western" adapted by Ronald Hanmer & Phil Park from the stage play by Charles K. Freeman after the Warner Bros Film written by James O'Hanlon. Licensed to Josef Weinberger Ltd, London by arrangement with Tams-Witmark Music Library NYC.Larry Todd , and Myron Mertz , cross paths with a gangster named "Shorty" when Larry hits on Shorty's girl. After fleeing from Shorty, they meet an heiress  who is sailing for Cuba. One unexplained murder and threatening note later, Larry and Myron sail with her to the island. Once there they cross paths with a zombie and other mysterious happenings. Eventually, they discover the person behind the mystery and rid the island of him. The movie ends with a cameo appearance by Bing Crosby and Bob Hope.The young widow Crystal Radek is invited to Marshovia, a small European kingdom, to attend the unveiling of a statue in honour of her deceased husband. The royal coffers are seriously in need of her money so the king sends out count Danilo to seduce her.A boy from the Caribbean, affected by the deaths of his parents and maiden aunt, escapes to the Danish forest.<ref nameHerx|firstThe Family Guide to Movies on Video|chapter39 |isbn1988|accessdateThe Crossroad Publishing Company}}In 1850 San Francisco, Russian Countess Marina Selanova  flees from an arranged marriage to Prince Semyon . She books passage with the "Portuguese"  to Sitka, where her uncle Governor Ivan Vorashilov  can protect her. When the Portuguese's bitter rival, Captain Jonathan Clark , frees his shanghaied crew, she sends a man to negotiate with him instead. However, Jonathan hates all Russians and turns down the offer. In desperation, Marina goes to the party he is throwing and, pretending to be the Countess's companion, gets him to change his mind. As he shows her the sights of the city in one whirlwind night, they fall in love. Jonathan proposes marriage and she gladly accepts. However, Prince Semyon finds Marina and takes her to Sitka. Believing Marina has tricked him, Jonathan races the Portuguese to Alaska, recklessly wagering his ship on who gets there first. Jonathan wins, but that doesn't stop the Portuguese from trying to steal his ship anyway. Unluckily, while both crews are brawling, a Russian gunboat appears and takes them all captive to Sitka. There, Prince Semyon forces Marina to agree to marry him in return for Jonathan's freedom. Jonathan and his men double back, rescue Marina, and sail away.Shemp wins $50,000 for accidentally guessing the correct make of a car for a radio contest. The boys check in at the Hotel Costa Plente, and quickly spend their winnings. Their suite is furnished with many expensive items, which they systematically destroy. The hotel manager  discovers the destruction when he delivers a telegram to the stooges' suite; the telegram reveals that taxes withheld from Shemp's winnings reduce the $50,000 windfall to a minuscule $4.85. Just then, three attractive gold diggers , who are also guests at the hotel, connive their way into the boys' room. After twice being accidentally drenched with ice water thrown by the boys, the girls hit the stooges over the head with champaign bottles.Following the wedding of his daughter Kay , Stanley T. Banks , a suburban lawyer, recalls the day, three months earlier, when he first learned of Kay's engagement to Buckley Dunstan ([[Don Taylor . At the family dinner table, Kay's casual announcement that she is in love with Buckley and has accepted his proposal makes Stanley feel uneasy, but he soon comes to realize that his daughter has grown up and the wedding is inevitable. While Ellie , Kay's mother, immediately begins making preparations for the wedding, Stanley lies awake at night, fearing the worst for his daughter. Stanley's misgivings about the marriage eventually make Ellie anxious, and she insists that Kay introduce them to Buckley's parents. Kay calls the tradition "old-fashioned rigamarole," but arranges the meeting nevertheless. Before the introduction, Stanley has a private conversation with Buckley, and is pleased to learn that the young man is the head of a small company and that he is capable of providing a comfortable life for Kay. The Bankses' first meeting with Doris and Herbert, Buckley's parents, gets off to an awkward start, and goes from bad to worse when Stanley drinks too much and falls asleep in the wealthy Dunstans' living room. Following Kay and Buckley's engagement party, Stanley, who misses the entire party because he is in the kitchen mixing drinks, realizes that his plans for a small wedding have been swept aside and he will be expected to pay for an extravagant wedding "with all the trimmings."As costs for the June event spiral out of control, Stanley calculates that he can afford to accommodate no more than one hundred and fifty guests. The task of paring down the guest list proves too difficult, however, and Stanley reluctantly consents to a 250-person reception. The plans for a lavish wedding continue until the day that Buckley tells Kay that he wants to take her on a fishing trip in Nova Scotia for their honeymoon. Kay reacts to the announcement with shock and calls off the wedding, but she and Buckley soon reconcile, and the two families begin their wedding rehearsals. On the day of the wedding, chaos reigns at the Banks home as final preparations are made for the reception. The wedding ceremony brings both joy and sorrow to Stanley, as he realizes that his daughter is now a woman and no longer his child. The following day, Ellie and Stanley survey the mess in their home and concur that the entire affair was a great success.{{Cite web}}Newly-married Mary Sage  is distraught when her husband Charlie  receives his call-up papers during their wedding breakfast. He travels to Heathercrest National Service Depot, meeting fellow recruit Horace Strong , a terminal hypochondriac who is devastated at having been passed as fit. The new recruits are assigned to Sergeant Grimshawe . Grimshawe is retiring from the army and takes on a £50 bet with Sergeant O'Brien  that his last bunch of squaddies will be his first champion platoon.  With beady-eyed inspection from Captain Potts  and disgruntled support from Corporal Copping ([[Bill Owen , Grimshawe decides to use some psychology and treat his charges kindly rather than simply shouting at them. But basic training doesn't start well and he struggles to take his squad through it. They include failure Herbert Brown , upper-class cad Miles Heywood , rock 'n' roller Andy Galloway , delicate flower Peter Golightly ([[Charles Hawtrey  and supercilious university graduate James Bailey . His attempts seem doomed. Mary is determined to spend her wedding night with her husband and smuggles herself into the depot to get a job in the NAAFI, a situation Charlie is eventually able to legitimise. Strong spends most of his time complaining to the Medical Officer, Captain Clark . It is only the adoration of doe-eyed NAAFI girl Norah , which he initially rejects, that makes him realise his potential and inspires to become a real soldier. On the eve of the final tests, Grimshaw is in despair, but he is overheard bemoaning his lot to Copping. The squad decide to win the best platoon prize at all costs. On the day, they indeed beat the other platoons at all tasks and Grimshaw is awarded the cup for best platoon.In the early 1900s, actor Lon Chaney  is working in vaudeville with his wife Cleva . Chaney quits the show and Cleva announces that she is pregnant. Lon is happy and tells Cleva that he has been hired by the famous comedy team Kolb and Dill for an upcoming show. Cleva pressures Lon to visit his parents  in his hometown of Colorado Springs. Lon is reluctant because his parents are both deaf mutes, a fact Lon has never shared. Cleva reacts with disgust and does not want to give birth, fearing that the child will also be a deaf mute and she doesn't want to be the mother of a "dumb thing." Months later, the baby Creighton is born and it soon becomes clear that the child is not deaf. Despite this good news, Lon's and Cleva's marriage continues to erode over the next few years. Soon she takes a job as a singer in a nightclub, dropping young Creighton off to his father backstage at his theater before being driven to work. Lon has developed a close but platonic friendship with chorus girl Hazel Hastings . Hazel is happy to help look after young Creighton. After the child gets sick at the theater, Lon complains to Cleva's employer, who reluctantly agrees to terminate her. When confronting his wife in her dressing room, Lon discovers that Cleva has been dating Bill, a wealthy patron. Cleva learns she's been fired and reacts by screaming, which causes Bill to enter the dressing room. Bill comforts her and then asks Lon who he is. Lon responds by telling Bill that he is from the collection agency, and that he is here to collect his wife. Bill looks at Cleva with contempt and walks away. Lon returns to the theater, where he discovers Hazel being accosted in the corridor by a tall, thin man. Lon punches the man in the face and tells him to get up. Hazel explains that he can't and the man lifts up his trousers to the knee, revealing two wooden legs. He is Carl Hastings, her former husband, once rational, but now consumed with bitterness as the result of his accident. Cleva enters the dressing room to find Lon with his hands on Hazel's shoulders. Cleva screams that she will not go back to being a "nurse maid" so that he can play around with a chorus girl. Cleva leaves home and vanishes. Days later, Lon is performing a dance routine in clown makeup at a matinee when a totally deranged Cleva walks on stage and swallows a bottle of acid in front of an audience, permanently damaging her vocal cords. Cleva is hospitalized, but runs away once more. The scandal essentially destroys Lon's career in vaudeville. The state takes custody of young Creighton as they deem his home situation to be unsuitable, causing Lon to react angrily. On the advice of press agent Clarence Locan , Lon moves to Hollywood to try his luck in the new field of motion pictures. After starting as an extra, Lon's tireless work ethic, and his expertise at makeup, make him an in-demand bit player and later a feature player. Lon is cast in the silent film The Miracle Man as a man thought to be physically challenged who is seemingly cured by a faith healer. His success starts him on the road to stardom in such films as The Hunchback of Notre Dame and The Phantom of the Opera. As his career soars, Lon face personal challenges. Although he marries Hazel and regains custody of Creighton, ex-wife Cleva reappears, seeking to spend time with Creighton . Hazel reveals the truth to Creighton, who leaves to stay with his mother, angry with Lon about the deception. Lon becomes ill on the set of the sound version of The Unholy Three and is diagnosed with bronchial cancer. Hazel and Locan decide to  hide the truth of his condition from him. Creighton  reconciles with his father and they take a fishing trip at Lon's mountain cabin. After returning from his fishing trip, Lon collapses and is returned home to live out his final days. On his deathbed, the dying Chaney  reverts to the sign language of his childhood to express his love for his friends and family and to ask for forgiveness for unspecified transgressions. Lon signals Creighton to bring him his makeup box. He removes a stick of greasepaint and ads a "Jr." to his own name on the box, signaling to his son his desire for him to carry on his life's work. Creighton leaves with box in hand, ready to start his film career as Lon Chaney, Jr.The first segment, "Circus", set to original music composed for the film by Jacques Ibert, is a tragic love triangle set in a mythical land sometime in the past. Kelly plays a clown, who is in love with another circus performer, played by Claire Sombert. She, however, is in love with an aerialist, played by Youskevitch. The second segment, "Ring Around the Rosy", set to original music by André Previn, tells several romantic stories tied by the exchange of a gold bracelet. The bracelet is originally given by a husband  to his wife Daphne Dale. She gives it to a flirtatious artist , at a party, infuriating the husband, who stalks off. The artist gives the bracelet to a model ([[Claude Bessy , and the bracelet changes hands through various performers, eventually returning to the husband, who reunites with his wife. The third segment, "Sinbad the Sailor", is a fantasy consisting of live action and Hanna–Barbera-directed cartoons set in the casbah of a Middle Eastern country. Kelly plays a sailor who is sold a magic lantern. This puts him in conflict with cartoon villains wielding swords, and falling in love with a cartoon harem girl. This segment includes complex dance sequences showing a live Kelly dancing with cartoon characters; predating many ideas which reappeared in Mary Poppins.  Use is also made of the original themes of Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's Scheherazade by the MGM music department team of adapter Roger Edens, conductor Johnny Green and orchestrator Conrad Salinger.Fernando Torres, in light of his family's poor finances, drops out of college to become a successful lounge singer at a local club. A fact he keeps secret from his father, a washed-up wrestler under the name of Tonina Jackson. Tonino has had some recent popularity in the ring, only due to Fernando bribing other wrestlers to lose. Fernando is also secretly moonlighting as the masked luchador Huracán Ramírez to further help with the household expenses. He is assisted by his somewhat dim-witted friend, Pichí, who doubles as his trainer and his stand-in for any situation in which Fernando and Huracán might have to be seen at the same time. Tonino has a growing resentment against Huracán's popularity and is further aggravated when he refuses to face him in the ring. After a night of partying, Fernando's father discovers his secret job as a lounge singer. Unimpressed with his new career path and disappointed he ended his schooling, he demands Fernando to leave his household. Tonina is later dissuaded by his younger daughter, who explains Fernando has been helping with finances for some time and without his spare income, the family would have been unable to survive. Meanwhile, the local wrestling promoter discovers Fernando has been setting up his father's matches. The promoter promises not to expose him as long as further bribes do not occur. In a following match against the wrestler Bello Califa, a drunken Pichí is mistaken for Huracán Ramírez. Pichí manages to defeat the flamboyant Bello Califa and after much confusion, both Fernando's sisters discover the true identity of Huracán. In the next day's match, Fernando wrestles against El Médico Asesino, only to be interrupted by an angry Totina. Despite being unwilling to fight against his father, Fernando relents. After their impromptu match comes to an end, Totina develops a great respect for Huracán Ramírez and decides to form an alliance with him. Meanwhile, Gloria, a fellow lounge singer and Fernando's former flame, feels dejected when her love for Fernando goes on unrequited. She is later enraged to learn that he has a new girlfriend, Laura, Pichí's older sister. A broken-hearted Gloria seeks revenge against her former lover, and after discovering his secret identity of Huracán Ramírez, plots to kill him by enlisting the aid of rival luchadors Frank "El Carnicero" Bucher, El Médico Asesino, Camilo "Bulldog" Pérez. The plan is to kidnap Fernando's father, who will thereby be unable to attend the night's tag-team match, and be replaced with Bulldog. During the course of the match, Bulldog will turn against Huracán, and the three luchadors will beat him to death. Their plan is foiled however, as Pichí quickly alerts Fernando who arrives just in time as Huracán to free his father, but his leg is badly injured in the process. Totina leaves for the match, only for Huracán to be replaced last minute by Bulldog, a reversal of Gloria's original plan. Fernando manages to rush to the wrestling stadium in time to fend off his father's attackers, but in his wounded state is easily overpowered by them. In an illegal move, one of the luchadors unmasks Fernando, revealing his true identity to his father. At this, both father and son are put in a blind rage, in which they both are able to defeat their attackers at the thunderous applause of fans.This classical peplum tells a fictitious story set in 490 BC, the time of the Medic Wars during which Persian armies sweep the Ancient world. Having brought home to Athens the Olympic victor's laurel crown, Philippides joins as commander the Sacred Guard, which is expected to defend the city-state's liberty, a year after the chasing of the tyrant Hippias. Athenian supporters of Hippias conspire, hoping to side Philippides by marriage to Theocrites' expensive servant Charis, and thus neutralize the guard. She fails to seduce him, as his heart is already taken by a young girl before the learns her name is Andromeda, daughter of Creuso. Everything personal is likely to be put on hold when the news breaks that the Persian King of kings Darius's vast army is marching on Greece, hoping its internal division will make its conquest a walk-over. Theocrites reproaches Miltiades to hold back the sacred guard to defend the Pallas temple after a likely defeat, and proposes instead to negotiate terms with Darius, but is told an alliance with Sparta could save the Hellenic nation. Philippides makes the journey and survives a fiendish attempt on his life by conspirators; he returns with Sparta's engagement during the Persian attack in far greater numbers on Militiades valiant troops. Charis, left for dead after overhearing Darius's orders, reaches the camp to tell that the Persian fleet, now commanded by traitor Theocrites, is heading for Piraeus to take Athens. Miltiades sends Philippides ahead to hold out with the sacred guard until his hopefully victorious troops arrive, and after his perilous journey back they do a great job, proving superior athletes can do better than traditional naval ramming tactics. {{Expand section}}The story revolves around Billy Bigelow, a rough-talking, macho, handsome carousel barker, and Julie Jordan, a young, innocent mill worker. They fall in love, but both are fired from their jobs for different reasons – Billy because he paid too much attention to Julie and incurred the wrath of the jealous carousel owner Mrs. Mullin, and Julie because she stayed out past the curfew imposed by the understanding but stern mill owner, Mr. Bascombe. Billy and Julie marry and go to live at the seaside spa of her cousin Nettie, but Billy becomes bitter because he is unable to find work, and in his frustration, strikes Julie . Mrs. Mullin, the jealous carousel owner who is infatuated with him, hears of this and goes to Nettie's to offer Billy his old job back, but will not re-hire him unless he leaves his wife. Billy seems to be considering the idea when Julie asks to talk privately. Julie, fearing he will be enraged, timidly tells him she is pregnant. But Billy is overjoyed and now firmly refuses Mrs. Mullin's offer. However, newly worried about not having enough money to provide for his child, Billy secretly agrees to join his pal Jigger Craigin in robbing the wealthy Bascombe. During a clambake, held on a nearby island, Billy and Jigger sneak to the mainland to commit the robbery, but Bascombe, who is usually unarmed, carries a gun and the robbery is foiled. While Bascombe is momentarily distracted, Jigger flees and leaves Billy at the mercy of the police. Cornered, but trying to escape, Billy climbs atop a pile of crates, whereupon the pile collapses and Billy falls on his own knife. The others return from the clambake, and Julie sees the mortally wounded Billy. She rushes over to him and he dies after saying his last words to her. Julie is devastated because she truly loved him, even though she never had the courage to say it out loud. Fifteen years later, in the other world , Billy is told that he can return to Earth for one day to make amends. Billy returns to find his daughter Louise emotionally scarred because she is constantly taunted over the fact that her father tried to commit a robbery. Billy, not telling her who he is, makes himself visible, tries to cheer her up, and gives her a star that he stole from Heaven. Louise refuses it, frightened, and Billy, in desperation, slaps her hand. She rushes inside the house and informs Julie of what happened, saying that she did not feel a slap, but a kiss. Billy tries to make himself invisible before Julie can see him, but she has glimpsed him for just a split second, and senses that he has come back for a reason. Billy asks his Heavenly Guide for permission to go to Louise's high school graduation, and there he silently gives both her and Julie the confidence they need and the knowledge that, in spite of everything, he loved Julie.The Bowery Boys' landlady Mrs. Kelly is in need of some money. Through some accident with electricity, Sach gains the ability to predict numbers. The boys get tickets for "Live Like a King", a game show. Thanks to Sach's new power, the boys earn a trip to one of the finest hotels in Las Vegas, Nevada. Sach uses his power to gamble ultimately win money for Mrs. Kelly. However, it's not too long before some curious gangsters want to get in on Sach's 'secret'.The Deccan Sultans of Berar, Ahmednagar, Bidar, Bijapur and Golconda who the splinters from the erstwhile Bahmani Sultnate now unite with the common purpose to defeat of Krishnadeva Raya and the conquest of the prosperous Vijayanagaram. They send their stooge Kanakaraj to assassinate Krishnadeva Raya, but Kanakaraj fails in his mission and is put to death. Then they planned courtesan Krishnasini. Krishnasini enters Vijayanagaram, and with her acclaimed dancing skills, manages to elicit the notice of the King, a great connoisseur of arts and beauty. She then plays her cards cleverly and besotted by her intelligent repartees and smoldering sensuousness, the susceptible King is soon a puppet in her hands. Orders are given that anyone who enters their private chamber would be beheaded and the King spends with Krishnasini’s for months. Reports reach the ministers that the Sultans are planning to take advantage of the King’s inaccessibility and launch a combined attack on Vijayanagaram. Worried at the state of affairs, Tenali Raman braves the prohibitory order and enters Krishnasini’s abode dressed as a woman, but all his appeals to the King seem to fall on deaf ears. Meanwhile Queen Thirumalamba falls seriously sick and the King finally comes out of his daze. Once the King is at his wife’s bedside, Tenali Ramakrishna manages to gain entry into Krishnasini’s house again, this time under the guise of an omniscient saint who assures her that he would bring the King back to her. He catches her red-handed with her gang of spies, and signals to the hidden soldiers to surround her. Realized that the game is up, Krishnasini prefers a dignified death. Shocked to see her stab herself, Timmarusu remonstrates with her that she has acted in haste, for the King would have certainly forgiven her.The story is set in Dearborn, Michigan, during the 1950s, and revolves around sixteen-year-old Arthur Bartley  and his schoolmates, fifteen-year-old Janet Willard  and Ernie . While widower's-daughter Janet laughs at Arthur and Ernie's forays into smoking, drinking, and playing cards, she's always been interested in Arthur, and as Arthur's parents try to shelter him from negative things in life , he turns to Janet for comfort. The relationship between Janet and Arthur results in her becoming pregnant. Unable to ask their parents  for help, they turn to Ernie, who'd boasted earlier about "helping a sailor who got his girl in trouble" by directing him to an abortionist &ndash; only to discover Ernie made it all up, based on secondhand stories. The three seek together to arrange an abortion and raise the funds, only to be discovered by their parents at the last moment. In the meantime, Arthur and Janet find out how much they do not yet know about life &ndash; and how much they truly care about each other.Three girls from Milan dreaming of a holiday in Rome arrive in the city by train and decide to pretend to be wealthy Danish girls to attract three good looking young men who offer them a guided tour through the landmarks of the city. The girls accept and make the guys spend a fortune, but one evening they get drunk and one of them incidentally reveals they are not Danish and are only from Milan. The guys get upset and plan their revenge, but in the end they make it up.Sir Wilfrid Robarts , a master barrister in ill health, takes Leonard Vole  on as a client, over the protestations of his private nurse, Miss Plimsoll , that the doctor had told him to stay away from criminal cases. Vole is accused of murdering Mrs. Emily French , a rich, older widow who had become enamored of him, going so far as to make him the main beneficiary of her will. Strong circumstantial evidence all points to Vole as the killer. When Sir Wilfrid speaks with Vole's German wife Christine , he finds her rather cold and self-possessed, but she does provide an alibi. Therefore, he is greatly surprised when she is called as a witness for the prosecution. While a wife cannot testify against her husband, it is shown that Christine was in fact still married to another man when she wed Leonard . She testifies that Leonard admitted to her that he had killed Mrs. French, and that her conscience forced her to finally tell the truth. During the trial , Sir Wilfrid is contacted by a mysterious woman, who  provides him with letters written by Christine herself to a mysterious lover named Max. The affair revealed by this correspondence gives Christine such a strong motive to have lied that the jury finds Leonard not guilty. However, Sir Wilfrid is troubled by the verdict. His instincts tell him that it was too tidy, too neat--"too symmetrical!" And so it proves. By chance, he and Christine are left alone in the courtroom. She takes the opportunity to take credit for the whole thing. When she heard him say at the beginning that a wife's testimony would not be convincing, she decided to set it up so that hers would be given for the prosecution and then be discredited. An ex-actress, she had played the part of the mystery woman so well that Sir Wilfrid did not recognize her when he negotiated for the letters. She knew that Leonard was guilty; her testimony was the truth. Her letters are a fraud &mdash; Max never existed. When asked why she did it, she confesses that she loves Leonard. Leonard appears and, now protected by double jeopardy, nonchalantly confirms what Christine had said. A young woman  then rushes into his arms. When he admits that he and the young woman are going away together, Christine kills him with a knife in a fit of fury. Sir Wilfrid remarks that Christine did not murder Leonard, but that she "executed him". Miss Plimsoll then cancels Sir Wilfrid's holiday, realizing that he cannot resist taking charge of Christine's defense.Child Susan Starrling  is the sole witness to a killing, but the shock causes her to suffer amnesia about the event. Her father David  is convicted of first degree murder of his wife. However, psychiatrist Caroline Cranford  is convinced she can cure the young girl and begins to suspect that another person is guilty.The trio own a furniture shop  who are staining some furniture they have delivered to Miss Scudder , an attractive curly-haired brunette who owns a boarding house. While attending to their duties , several new boarders at Miss Scudder's place are actually a trio of crooks who have just robbed a jewelry store. The Stooges are held at gunpoint while Miss Scudder is tied up and gagged in her kitchen while the crooks ransack the house to steal several valuable heirlooms in her possession. The Stooges and Miss Scudder work together and unravel the crooks' plot.Frank and Martha Addison live in Los Alamos, where he does top-secret work as a physicist. They have a young son, Tommy, who goes with school mates to Santa Fe for a carnival, where teacher Ellen Haskell can't find him when Tommy's winning ticket in a raffle is announced. The Addisons receive a telegram telling them Tommy has been kidnapped. The teacher also gets in touch about their boy being missing, but Frank, ordered to keep quiet, lies that he left work early and picked up his son. Ellen's boyfriend is an FBI agent, Russ Farley, and she passes along her concerns. Farley and partner Harold Mann begin tailing the Addisons. When a kidnapper instructs Frank to steal a file from the atomic lab and mail it to a Los Angeles hotel, he wants to inform the authorities, but Martha fears for their boy. A small-time thief, David Rogers, picks up the file and takes it to a baseball game, followed by the FBI's agents and cameras. His car explodes, killing him, but Rogers first passed the file to someone at the game. FBI film spots a hot-dog vendor who is actually Donald Clark, a man with Communist ties. Tommy is moved by kidnappers to the site of an Indian ruin in New Mexico, where they briefly encounter the Fentons, a family of tourists. The mastermind turns out to be Dr. Rassett, a physicist. He studies the file Addison mailed and determines it to be a fake. Rassett orders the boy killed, but Tommy has escaped and is hiding in a cave. The son of the Fentons has the raffle ticket, which he found by the ruins. FBI agents rush to the site, where Rassett is arrested after killing his accomplices, and Tommy is saved.The film relates the fictionalized story of Evelyn Nesbit. Nesbit was a model and actress, who became embroiled in the scandal surrounding the June 1906 murder of her former lover, architect Stanford White, by her husband, rail and coal tycoon Harry Kendall Thaw. Nesbit served as a technical adviser on the film.Shukichi Sugiyama  works in a bank in Tokyo. His eldest daughter Takako , with her toddler girl, is staying with him, running away from an unhappy marriage. Takako's younger sister Akiko  searches for her boyfriend Kenji in various locations. While looking for Kenji in a mahjong parlour, Akiko meets its proprietress Kikuko , who knows a lot about her family. Akiko meets Kenji and tells him she is pregnant. She arranges to meet Kenji in a cafe but he does not come, and she is picked up by the police. Takako pieces together that Kikuko is their long-lost mother and visits the parlour to ask Kikuko not to reveal to Akiko who she really is. Akiko has an abortion but does not tell Takako, borrowing the money from a family friend. Akiko learns that Takako visited the mahjong parlour. She works out that Kikuko is their mother, who ran away with another man when Akiko was still a toddler. Akiko suspects she is not her father's real daughter. She confronts Kikuko. Kikuko tells her that she is her father's daughter. She breaks into tears and leaves. She goes to a bar and then a restaurant and drinks heavily. Kenji appears and tries to apologize. Akiko hits him and runs out, and is hit by a train at an intersection just outside the restaurant. The restaurant owner stays with Akiko in the hospital. Shukichi and Takako arrive. Akiko says that she does not want to die, but start life over again. In the next scene, Takako visits Kikuko and tells her Akiko is dead, and blames Kikuko. Kikuko decides to leave Tokyo. She goes to the Sugiyamas to pay condolences but Takako does not let her in. Takako does not go to send her off at the railway station. Takako tells her father that she is going back to her husband to try to make their marriage work again because she does not want her daughter to become like Akiko. In the last scene, Shukichi leaves for work, with Takako not present.Patsy Douglas  comes up with an ingenious way to get a seat on the crowded New York subway: she pretends to have a baby, using a doll discarded by the advertising agency where she works. One day, however, her agency's primary client, short-tempered Cyrus Baxter , happens to be seated beside her.  He is delighted when he overhears that she named her "child" Cyrus after him. He becomes acquainted with her, letting her assume that he works for Baxter as a watchman. Later, when the agency's two bosses, Sam Morley  and Barry Holmes  see Baxter to try to get him to sign a contract for a new advertising campaign, he insists they keep her happy, to their puzzlement. Morley and Holmes discover that she has been fired; they quickly hire her back and promote her from her secretarial duties. Meanwhile, Baxter keeps seeing Patsy, trying to help her with his namesake. She manages to maintain her charade, but Morley sees them together and assumes that she is Baxter's mistress. Patsy discovers her new friend's identity when her bosses send her to present their latest idea. Meanwhile, Baxter's temper improves under Patsy's influence. When Morley and Holmes finally learn the truth, Patsy wants to confess all to Baxter, but they insist she carry on the masquerade until they get his signature on the contract. She reluctantly agrees, after they point out that they will probably have to close if they do not get Baxter's business, throwing hundreds out of work. When Morley shows Baxter a photograph of the baby , Baxter notices a resemblance to Holmes and assumes he is the father. To placate him, Morley arranges for Holmes to start dating Patsy. In the process, however, he becomes jealous, having fallen in love without realizing it. When Baxter's plans for the baby become too overwhelming, Patsy tells him that she will raise her son on her own. She quits the agency as well. Baxter hires private investigator Corcoran  to track her down. He finally learns there is no child. Morley confirms what Corcoran has discovered, and also admits he is in love with Patsy. A delighted Baxter insists he go after the girl. Morley catches Patsy on a subway train, and persuades her to get off at the City Hall stop to get married.When wealthy, well-known practical joker Henry Russell  dies, four relatives find out that they stand to inherit considerable sums ... provided they commit acts that are completely contrary to their natures. Law-abiding Deniston Russell  has to get himself arrested and jailed for 28 days. Difficult, snobbish Agnes Russell  has to find work as a maid and keep her job long enough to qualify. She ends up with irascible Gordon Webb , who deduces that his new servant has to keep her job for some reason and proceeds to make her life difficult. Simon Russell  is a womanizing cad; his task is to marry the first single woman he meets. Timid Herbert Russell  is assigned to hold up the bank where he works, with a toy pistol. All except Agnes Russell succeed in their tasks, but she gains happiness in other ways, as do Denniston and Herbert Russell. Only Simon Russell, who has cheated slightly, finds that he has married a girl as devious as himself. There is a marvellous twist at the end which I will not reveal to avoid spoiling the enjoyment of those not yet fortunate enough to have seen it !'Chris' Crystal Benson is a single mother living in a small town in New Mexico. One night she feels a man is stalking her. She grabs a gun and makes a series of arrangements anticipating his own death. She prepared a tape with a message for her teenage daughter, who (in [[flashback  speak about his relationship with Steve Blackford, who, agreement with she, he has good reason to hate her. Chris is determined and has many resources to kill him if he tries to hurt him, but Steve has had 18 years to prepare your plan of revenge. http://www.answers.com/topic/make-haste-to-live Make Haste to Live: Information from Answers.com. Retrieved July 11, 2011, to 20:06 pm.Myra Hudson  is a successful Broadway playwright who rejects Lester Blaine  as the lead in her new play. Later, she meets Lester on a train bound for San Francisco, is swept off her feet, and, after a brief courtship, marries him. Lester learns that Myra is writing her will and plans to leave the bulk of her fortune to a foundation. He plots her murder in cahoots with Irene Neves , an old girlfriend hiding in the wings. Myra discovers their plans and concocts a diabolical scheme to kill Lester and place the blame on Irene, but cannot bring herself to go through with it. Lester learns of Myra's intention and accidentally kills Irene and himself in an attempt on Myra's life. Myra hears the two pronounced dead and breathes a sigh of relief.Maria  is a housekeeper, who is married to Filiberto 'Berto' Morucchi  who is currently without a job so expecting to inherit some money from his uncle Matteo. Maria's best friend is Ermelinda . Meanwhile, Maria does her job. Her first employer is a woman who cheats on her husband. Then, Maria works for a marriage  which is about collapsing. Finally, she is hired by Raffaele , a math teacher who is engaged to marry her. Nonetheless, eventually uncle Matteo passes away.Gelsomina , a credulous young woman, learns that her sister Rosa has died since going on the road with the strongman Zampanò . Now the same man has returned a year later to ask her mother if Gelsomina will take Rosa's place. The mother accepts 10,000 lire and her daughter departs the same day. Zampanò makes his living as an itinerant street performer, entertaining crowds by breaking an iron chain bound tightly across his chest, then passing the hat for tips. In short order, Gelsomina's naïve and antic nature emerges, with Zampanò's brutish methods presenting a callous foil. He teaches her to play the snare drum and trumpet, dance a bit, and clown for the audience. Despite her willingness to please, he relies on intimidation and even cruelty at times to maintain his dominion. Finally, she rebels and leaves, making her way into town. There she watches the act of another street entertainer, Il Matto , a talented high wire artist and clown . When Zampanò finds her there, he forcibly takes her back. They join a ragtag travelling circus where Il Matto already works. Il Matto teases the strongman at every opportunity, though he cannot explain what motivates him to do so. On being drenched by a pail of water, Zampanò chases after his tormentor with his knife drawn; as a result, both men are briefly jailed and eventually fired. Gelsomina's difficulties with her forced partnership are the subject of frequent soul searching. After Il Matto's release from prison, he proposes that there are alternatives to her servitude, and imparts his philosophy that everything and everyone has a purpose—even a pebble, even her. A nun suggests that Gelsomina's purpose in life is comparable to her own. But when Gelsomina offers the possibility of marriage, Zampanò brushes her off. The separate paths of fool and strongman cross for the last time on an empty stretch of road, when Zampanò comes upon Il Matto fixing a flat tire. As Gelsomina watches in horror, the strongman strikes the clown on the head several times. Il Matto complains that his watch is broken, then collapses and dies. Zampanò hides the body and pushes the car off the road. The killing breaks Gelsomina's spirit. After ten days, her affect remains flat and her eyes lifeless. Finally Zampanò abandons her while she is taking a nap. Some years later, he overhears a woman singing a tune Gelsomina often played. He learns that the woman's father had found Gelsomina on the beach and kindly taken her in. However, she had wasted away and died. Zampanò gets drunk and wanders to the beach, where he breaks down and cries uncontrollably.The story focuses on Jane Hudson , a single, middle-aged elementary school  secretary from Akron, Ohio. She is on her summer vacation and is now enjoying her lifelong dream of a vacation in Venice after saving up money for the past few years for the big trip. During the water bus ride to the Pensione Fiorini, she meets two fellow Americans, Lloyd  and Edith  McIlhenny. At the hotel, they are greeted by Signora Fiorini , a widow who transformed her home into a pensione after World War II. Also staying at the property are Eddie Yaeger , a young American painter studying art, and his wife Phyl . That evening, Jane walks to the Piazza San Marco, where the sight of so many couples leaves her slightly depressed. While seated in a café, she becomes aware of a solitary Italian man watching her and quickly leaves. The following day, Jane goes shopping and sees a red glass goblet in the window of an antiques store. Upon entering she discovers that the owner, Renato de Rossi , is the very man from whom she fled the night before. He assures her that the goblet is an authentic 18th century artifact, and she purchases it after he teaches her the art of bargaining. Hoping to see her again, Renato offers to search for a matching goblet. Jane is also pestered off and on during her stay by a friendly young Italian street urchin. The boy is present when Jane accidentally steps backward into a canal while focusing with her camera on de Rossi's shop. The next morning, Jane returns to the shop and is disappointed to discover that Renato is not there. That evening, he comes to the pensione and confesses he is attracted to her. When Jane resists his advances, he warns her not to waste an opportunity for happiness, and she is about to agree to have dinner with him when the McIlhennys return from a shopping expedition on the island of Murano, during which they purchased a set of new red goblets similar to the one Jane bought. She accuses Renato of swindling her, but he assures her that some designs have been used for centuries on Murano and he insists that her goblet is an antique. The two attend a concert at the piazza, where an orchestra plays the overture to La gazza ladra. When a flower seller approaches them, Renato is surprised when Jane chooses a simple gardenia instead of an orchid. They return to the pensione, where he kisses her, and she responds passionately and murmurs, "I love you," before rushing off to her room. The next day, she treats herself to salon treatments and new clothes in anticipation of their date that evening. While she waits for him at the piazza, Renato's assistant Vito  arrives and inadvertently reveals that he is Renato's son. Stunned to discover Renato is married and has several children, Jane takes refuge in a bar where she encounters Phyl, who confides her marriage is in trouble. Upon returning to the pensione, Jane discovers Eddie is having an affair with Signora Fiorini. Renato arrives and tells her their relationship is none of her business. He admits he is married, but claims he and his wife are separated, a fact he concealed because he did not want to scare her away. He accuses her of being immature and unwilling to accept what she can have in reality instead of just longing for more. After dinner, Jane and Renato venture to Renato's apartment and their affair is consummated. After spending time with Renato on the island of Burano, Jane, unwilling to remain in a relationship she knows is destined to end unhappily, decides to return home. Renato begs her to stay, but Jane insists it is better to leave the party before it ends. Although she asks him not to come to the train station, she hopes he will ignore her request. As the train begins to leave the station, Jane is thrilled to see Renato running toward it. He tries to hand her a package but the train is moving too quickly, so he opens it to reveal he had bought her another gardenia.Ma and Pa head out again to their "old place" after they read their son's contest letter stating that two judges of National Magazine will evaluate the farm for the scholarship contest.Blanche DuBois  is a fading, but nevertheless attractive Southern belle, whose pretensions to virtue and culture only thinly mask her alcoholism and delusions of grandeur. Her poise is an illusion she presents to shield others, and most of all herself, from reality to try to make herself still attractive to new male suitors. Blanche arrives from her hometown of Auriol, Mississippi at the apartment of her sister, Stella Kowalski , in the French Quarter of New Orleans, on Elysian Fields Avenue. The local transportation that she takes to arrive there includes a streetcar route named "Desire." The steamy, urban ambiance is a shock to Blanche's nerves. Explaining that her ancestral southern plantation, Belle Reve in Auriol, Mississippi, has been "lost" due to the "epic debauchery" of her ancestors, Blanche is welcomed with some trepidation by Stella, who fears the reaction of her husband, Stanley Kowalski . Blanche says her supervisor gave her time off her job as an English teacher because of her upset nerves. In truth, however, she was fired for having an affair with a 17-year-old male student. This turns out not to be the only seduction she had engaged in — and these problems led Blanche to run away from Auriol. A brief marriage scarred by the suicide of her spouse, Allan Grey, has led Blanche to live in a world in which her fantasies and illusions are seamlessly mixed with her reality. In contrast to both the self-effacing and deferential Stella and the pretentious refinement of Blanche, Stanley is a force of nature: primal, rough-hewn, brutish and sensual. He dominates Stella in every way and is physically and emotionally abusive. Stella tolerates his behavior as this is part of what attracted her in the first place. Their love and relationship is heavily based on powerful, even animalistic, sexual chemistry - something that Blanche says that she finds impossible to understand, despite long glances of admiration and lust towards Stanley. The arrival of Blanche upsets her sister's and brother-in-law's system of mutual dependence. Stella's concern for her sister's well-being emboldens Blanche to hold court in the Kowalski apartment, infuriating Stanley and leading to conflict in his relationship with his wife. Stanley's friend and Blanche's would-be suitor, Harold "Mitch" Mitchell , is trampled as Blanche and Stanley head for a collision course. Stanley discovers Blanche's past through a co-worker who travels to Auriol frequently. He confronts Blanche with the things she has been trying to put behind her, partly out of concern that her character flaws may be damaging to the lives of those in her new home , and partly due to resentment of her airs of superiority toward him and a distaste for pretense in general. However, his attempts to "unmask" her are predictably cruel and violent. Their final confrontation — a rape — results in Blanche's nervous breakdown. Stanley has her committed to a mental institution. Mitch, knowing that Stanley raped Blanche and had her committed to a mental institution, lashes out and punches Stanley but is then held back by the other men, and he starts to weep. As the other men stare at Stanley, he claims he "never once touched her". Devastated with her sister's fate, Stella weeps and rejects Stanley's intention to comfort her and pushes him away. Stella runs out to see Blanche off, but is too late, as the car Blanche left in has already gone. As he cries her name once more , Stella clings to her child and vows that she is "never going back" to Stanley again. She goes upstairs once more in order to seek refuge with her neighbor, Eunice , as Stanley continues to call her name.The film opens with Dr. Harvey  relating to the audience an odd tale that took place in his peaceful village. Bill and Robin are boyhood friends who compete for the affections of Lena, a beautiful girl about their own age. In adulthood, the two men collaborate on the invention of the Reproducer, a machine that can exactly duplicate physical objects. Lena comes back into the picture, reviving the childhood feelings in the two men. In time, they abandon their work on the Reproducer, Robin going away to learn his family's business. Bill is disappointed to discover that Lena loves Robin and intends to marry him. Seeing the hopelessness of winning Lena for himself, Bill convinces the young woman to allow him to use the Reproducer to create a duplicate of her. The experiment succeeds, and Bill names the woman he has created "Helen." Unfortunately, the experiment has worked too well, and when Helen is introduced to Robin, she falls hopelessly in love with him too. Bill decides his last chance is to use electro-shock to erase Helen's memory. Helen agrees to give it a try, and Bill convinces Lena to help him with the procedure, manipulating some of the electronic equipment. The process seems to work, but the apparatus overheats and explodes, causing a terrific fire. Robin arrives with Dr. Harvey, who has explained the situation to him, and manages to rescue a woman from the fire. Bill and the other woman perish in the flames. There is some tension around the idea of which woman Robin has saved, Lena or Helen, especially when Dr. Harvey discovers that the woman has no memory. However, Dr. Harvey recalls that Bill had had to start Helen's heart with a device that he attached to the back of her neck, leaving two scars. Robin is relieved to find that there are no marks on the neck of the woman he has rescued: It is Lena.Anne Baxter stars as Norah Larkin, a single woman whose heart is broken after receiving a "Dear John" letter. After a night of drinking she passes out in the apartment of womanizer Harry Prebble , awaking to find herself accused of his murder. Named The Blue Gardenia Murderess by newspaper columnist Casey Mayo , Norah tries to remember the details of her ill-fated night. She eventually teams with the newspaper man to help solve the mystery.Deborah Chandler Clark watches police drag a North Carolina river for her body. She recounts the events that brought her to this, beginning when her father, a mill owner, disapproved of a romance between Deborah and the mill's general manager, Seldon Clark. Her father falls to his death at the mill. Seldon consoles her and proposes. On their honeymoon, a jealous and angry woman named Patricia Monahan turns up and claims she's been romantically involved with Seldon, insisting he married Deborah simply to gain control of her mill. Deborah demands an annulment of the marriage. While leaving, the brakes fail on her car. She leaps out just before it crashes into the river. Believing she would be unable to prove her husband's guilt, Deborah disappears, moving to Knoxville and going by the name Ann Carter. An ex-soldier, Keith Ramsay, seems interested in Ann and follows her. What he's really interested in is a $5,000 reward offered by her husband. At a hotel hosting a crowded convention, Seldon nearly succeeds in killing his wife. Keith finally realizes that Deborah is in genuine danger. Patricia can confirm her story, so Deborah tracks her down. Patricia betrays her, however, still being in love with Seldon. At the mill, he attempts to throw Deborah to her death the same way he murdered her father. In the darkness, he mistakenly kills Patricia instead, and dies himself after a fight with Keith.At the Woman Haters Club, Larry and Shemp exchange stories of their disastrous encounters with a gold digger, who turns out to be the same woman . Jane became engaged to Larry, only to dump him when Moe shows up with a larger diamond ring. Shemp is a good samaritan, who winds up in Jane's apartment after a good deed, and chased by her husband Moe when he returns home early   After telling their stories, they drown their sorrows in beer, and Shemp and Larry are introduced by fellow club member Charlie , to the club's newest recruit: Moe.In ancient Baghdad, poet Omar Khayyám wanders the streets in search of his friend, Sinbad, the son and namesake of the great adventurer, and finds him outside the Khalif's palace. Although the Khalif has offered a reward for his capture, the roguish Sinbad ignores Omar's warnings and nonchalantly sneaks into the palace. Spouting Omar's poetry, Sinbad romances Nerissa, one of the Khalif's harem girls, but is exposed by jealous slave Ameer, who also loves him. Both Sinbad and Omar are caught and brought before the Khalif for sentencing. Also on trial are Greek scholar Simon Aristides, and his daughter Kristina, Sinbad's childhood friend, who has been wrongfully accused of stealing. After the Khalif orders that Sinbad and Omar be executed, his advisor, Jiddah, persuades him to meet with Murad, the ambassador to Tamerlane, a Tartar leader whose forces are threatening to invade Baghdad. Murad boldly informs the Khalif that the Tartars will soon be storming the city and demands that he and his men be entertained in the meantime. Anxious to save Kristina, Sinbad reveals to the Khalif that Simon possesses the formula for an explosive called "Greek fire" and will share it with the Khalif in exchange for Simon's, Kristina's, Omar's and his freedom. The Khalif refuses to release Sinbad and Omar, but while they are incarcerated in the dungeon, Simon and Kristina give the ruler a private demonstration of Greek fire. As protection, Simon has entrusted the formula to Kristina, who can recite the instructions only while hypnotized. In front of the Khalif, Simon hypnotizes Kristina, who then gives her father directions for mixing the various bottled ingredients. Unknown to them, Jiddah is in cahoots with Murad, and both men are eavesdropping on the proceedings. Although Jiddah and Murad can hear Kristina telling her father how much of each item to use, they cannot ascertain the chemicals being poured by Simon. Meanwhile, the Khalif, ecstatic about the explosive, agrees to Simon's demand that Sinbad and Omar be freed in the morning. That night, Kristina confides in Ameer that she wants to marry Sinbad and asks her to tell him about his imminent release. Though jealous, Ameer delivers the message to Sinbad, but when she returns to Kristina's chambers, she finds Kristina gone and Simon murdered. Ameer sees Murad fleeing with Kristina and Simon's chemicals and sends a message via carrier pigeon before being caught by Jiddah. While torturing Ameer to reveal the bird's destination, Jiddah notices that she has a Forty Thieves tattoo on her shoulder. Although the Thieves, a band of raiders once led by Sinbad's father, are now dead, Ameer admits that their heirs have banded together, and Jiddah deduces that the message went to them. At dawn, Sinbad and Omar learn that their execution is to proceed as scheduled, but they escape the dungeon and fight their way to the Khalif's chambers. There, Sinbad offers to retrieve Kristina in exchange for his and Omar's freedom, some gold and a promise that he will be made second in command in Bagdad. The Khalif agrees and Sinbad rides off with Omar, unaware that Jiddah, having heard his exchange with the Khalif, is alerting Murad of his plan. Later, while resting in the desert, Sinbad and Omar are joined by Ameer, who reveals that Murad and his men are traveling in disguise with a caravan of merchants and that the Forty Thieves will attack them at first camp. Omar and Sinbad ride to the camp ahead of the caravan, and Sinbad has Omar bury him in the spot where he thinks Kristina's tent will be placed. Breathing through a reed, Sinbad remains buried in the Tartars' camp, far from Kristina's tent, until Murad unwittingly plucks his reed from the sand. Sinbad is forced to surface but manages to sneak into Kristina's tent and free her. As Sinbad, Omar and Kristina ride off, the Forty Thieves, who are all women, attack the camp and reclaim Simon's bottles. Omar, Sinbad and Kristina then go to the Forty Thieves's cave and, using the cry "open sesame," signal a donkey named Sesame to open the "door." After arranging with Ghenia, the raiders' leader, Sinbad reunites with Ameer, but when he refuses to have "eyes only for her," Ameer rejects him. Just then, Murad's men advance on the cave, and Sinbad quickly hypnotizes Kristina, who has fallen in love with Omar, and concocts some Greek fire using Simon's chemicals. Hurling torches coated with the explosive, the Thieves, Sinbad and Omar cripple Murad and his men. Sinbad then defeats Murad in a sword fight, and victory is declared. Later, Sinbad convinces the women to go with him to Bagdad and make peace with the Khalif. At the palace, the Khalif waits for Sinbad with Jiddah, whose duplicity he has yet to realize, preparing to execute him for failing his mission. When Sinbad appears with Kristina and a bevy of beautiful raiders, however, the Khalif embraces him and orders Jiddah to be de-tongued. At Sinbad's behest, Omar is made the royal poet, the Thieves are pardoned, and Sinbad is installed as second in command. Then as a final request, Sinbad asks Ameer to be his bride.Noriko , a secretary in Tokyo, lives in the extended Mamiya family at Kamakura, Kanagawa, which includes her parents Shukichi and Shige , her older brother Koichi , a physician, his wife Fumiko , and their two young sons Minoru  and Isamu . An elderly uncle  arrives from the provinces to visit Tokyo, and reminds everyone that Noriko is at an age where she should marry. At work, Noriko's boss Satake  recommends a match for her involving a forty-year-old friend, Mr Manabe, who is a businessman and an avid golfer. Her other friends are divided into two groups—the married and the unmarried—who tease one another endlessly, with Aya Tamura  her close ally in the unmarried group. The Mamiya family applies gentle pressure on Noriko to accept the match proposed by Satake, primarily through their acceptance of the cultural assumption that it is time for her to marry, and that the match proposed is a good one for a woman of her age. Childhood friend Kenkichi Yabe , a doctor, and widower, is father to a young daughter. Yabe arranges to have tea and cakes with Noriko and gives her a sheaf of wheat. The sheaf is a gift from a brother who was killed during World War II and who asked Yabe to deliver it to Noriko in case he did not return. Later, Yabe is posted to Akita, in northern Honshu. Akita is considered so rural that Noriko and Aya make fun of the accent of the area. But when Yabe's mother Tami  impulsively asks Noriko to marry Kenkichi and follow them in their northward resettlement, Noriko agrees. When Noriko reveals her decision to her family, the Mamiyas are quietly devastated. They hint to her that the match is a poor one. When Noriko persists the family is forced to live with their disappointment. The family gradually accepts Noriko's choice with quiet resignation and before Noriko moves on, the family has a last photoshoot together. Noriko's parents console themselves that Noriko and Kenkichi will move back to Tokyo in a few years' time, and the family will be reunited. Meanwhile, the parents shall move to a rural region to stay with Noriko's elderly uncle. In the final scene of the film a bride passes down the country road in her traditional costume and Noriko's parents reflect on the impermanent nature of life. The final shot is of a barley field ripening, which signifies the season the film is set in, early summer. The Japanese name of the film in fact means, Barley Harvest Time.Young newlywed Marge Farrell notices her new husband Bill is acting strangely. He doesn't show any affection towards her or anything else, including his pet dogs, which he used to love. Marge is also concerned that she cannot seem to get pregnant. She then notices that other husbands in her social circle are all acting the same way. One night she follows Bill while he goes for a walk. She discovers that he is not the man she knew but an alien impostor: An extraterrestrial lifeform leaves his body and enters a hidden spaceship. She confronts Bill and he eventually explains that the females from his planet were extinct and that he and other males are taking over human men so they can mate with Earth's women and save their race. Marge is horrified and tries to warn others of the plot, but too many men have already been taken over, including the Chief of Police. Finally, her doctor believes her wild tale and he gathers a posse to attack the aliens in their hideout. Although bullets can't hurt the invaders, they are defenceless against a pair of German shepherd dogs that the posse has. The aliens are eventuially killed by the dogs. Entering the spaceship, the posse finds all of the human captives alive, including Bill. An army of spaceships is seen lifting off around the world, seeking a new refuge.Dodie lives with her parents and dreams of marrying a millionaire. At home in California, near the ocean, her boyfriend Buzz is a real-estate agent of modest means. He proposes marriage and she accepts, but tells her pal Marge that she has doubts. A yacht arrives, owned by wealthy Neil Patterson, which gets Dodie's fantasies going. She even leaps into the water and swims out to meet him. Asked on a date, Dodie is thrilled until she learns that the man isn't Neal at all but his poor mechanic, Pete. It isn't long before Pete is smitten and proposes. He also infuriates Buzz by pretending to buy a house and bringing Dodie along as his fiancee. A drunk Neil has an accidental meeting with Dodie and invites her onto the yacht. At first she's annoyed by his advances, but in Tijuana she gets tipsy and has a great time. Neil is the rich suitor she's been dreaming about, one who even buys a taxi rather than just hailing a ride from one. After being out till 4 a.m., Dodie is brought home by Neil, only to find Buzz and Pete impatiently waiting on her doorstep. Asking time to sleep on a decision, Dodie tells them the next morning that she has made her choice: Neil. The guys reluctantly accept, and Dodie goes off with her new betrothed. But the minute Pete kisses her goodbye, she promptly changes her mind.Colonial tea planter John Wiley, visiting England at the end of World War II, wins and weds lovely English rose Ruth and takes her home to Elephant Walk, Ceylon, where the local elephants have a grudge against the plantation because it blocks their migrating path. Ruth's delight with the tropical wealth and luxury of her new home is tempered by isolation as the only white woman in the district; by her husband's occasional imperious arrogance; by a mutual physical attraction with plantation manager Dick Carver; and by the hovering, ominous menace of the hostile elephants. The elephants end up destroying the plantation in a stampede along with a fire.As World War II ends in Europe, Stars and Stripes journalist Charles Wills  is on the streets of Paris, covering the celebrations. He is suddenly grabbed by a beautiful woman, who kisses him and disappears. Charles follows the crowd to Café Dhingo and meets another pretty woman named Marion Elliswirth . The mutual attraction is instant and she invites him to join her father's celebration of the end of the war in Europe. Charles, Marion and her persistent French suitor Claude Matine  arrive at the Elliswirth household, and we find that the woman who had kissed Charles is Marion's younger sister Helen . Their father, James Elliswirth , had survived World War I and promptly joined the Lost Generation. Unlike most drifters, he never grew out of it; raising his two daughters to desire such a lifestyle. Helen takes after her father and uses her beauty to sustain a life of luxury even though they are flat broke. Marion goes the other way and looks for serious-minded and conventional young men such as Claude, an aspiring prosecutor, and Charles, the future novelist. Charles and Helen fall in love and start dating. After Helen recovers from a near-death case of pneumonia, they get married and settle in Paris. James good-naturedly joins the happy family of Charles, with Helen eventually having a daughter Vickie . Marion, having lost Charles to Helen, agrees to marry Claude. Charles struggles to make ends meet with his meagre salary, unsuccessfully works on his novels and looks after Vickie. At about this time, the barren oil fields in Texas James had bought years before finally begin to produce. Charles, to whom James had given the oil fields as a dowry, quits his job, and Helen and James begin to host parties instead of going to them. Sudden wealth changes Helen, who becomes more responsible, while Charles parties his wealth away after quitting his newspaper job and having all his novels rejected by publishers. They also each start to pursue other interests: Helen flirts with handsome tennis player Paul Lane , while Charles competes in a local Paris-to-Monte Carlo race with professional divorcee Lorraine Quarl . After the race Charles returns to Paris, only to find Helen sitting in Café Dhingo with Paul. A fight breaks out between Paul and Charles, and an angry Charles goes home first and puts the chain on the door, preventing it from being opened all the way. When Helen comes home and tries to enter she can't. She calls out to him, but Charles is in a drunken stupor on the staircase and we hear the bottle drop from his hands as Helen calls. Helen ends up having to walk all the way to her sister's in the snow and rain. She catches pneumonia again and dies. Marion petitions for and gets full custody of Vickie, while Charles returns home to America. A few years later, having straightened himself out, published a book, and stopped boozing, Charles returns to Paris, hoping his reform will persuade Marion to give Vickie back to him. Marion refuses, still feeling resentful towards Charles for having fallen for Helen instead of her. Seeing that Charles and Vickie belong together, Claude steps in and tells Marion that she is punishing Charles for his not realizing that Marion loved him. It is painful for him to tell her that he, Claude, could not have all of her love, but Charles should not be punished any more. Marion goes into Café Dhingo  to look for Charles  and tells him that Helen would not have wanted him to be alone. Outside the cafe, Claude is with Vickie. The child runs to Charles and Charles and the child walk off together as the movie ends.In AD 26, Judah Ben-Hur  is a wealthy prince and merchant in Jerusalem. His childhood friend, the Roman citizen Messala , is now a tribune. After several years away from Jerusalem, Messala returns as the new commander of the Roman garrison. Messala believes in the glory of Rome and its imperial power, while Ben-Hur is devoted to his faith and the freedom of the Jewish people. Messala asks Ben-Hur for the names of Jews who criticize the Romans. Ben-Hur refuses. Ben-Hur lives with his mother, Miriam , and sister, Tirzah . Their loyal slave Simonides  is preparing for an arranged marriage for his daughter, Esther Haya Harareet. Ben-Hur gives Esther her freedom as a wedding present, and the audience is shown that Ben-Hur and Esther are in love even though her marriage to another man is imminent. During the parade for the new governor of Judea, Valerius Gratus, a tile falls from the roof of Ben-Hur's house. Gratus is thrown from his horse and nearly killed. Although Messala knows this was an accident, he condemns Ben-Hur to the galleys and imprisons Miriam and Tirzah. By punishing a known friend and prominent citizen, he hopes to intimidate the Jewish populace. Ben-Hur swears to take revenge. Dying of thirst when his slave gang arrives at Nazareth, Ben-Hur collapses. But a local carpenter  gives him water. After three years as a galley slave, Ben-Hur is assigned to the flagship of the Roman Consul Quintus Arrius , who has been charged with destroying a fleet of Macedonian pirates. Arrius admires Ben-Hur's self-discipline and offers to train him as a gladiator or charioteer. Ben-Hur declines the offer, declaring that God will aid him in his quest for vengeance. The Roman fleet encounters the Macedonians. Arrius orders all the rowers except Ben-Hur to be chained to their benches. Arrius' galley is rammed and sunk, but Ben-Hur unchains the other rowers, and saves Arrius' life. Arrius believes the battle ended in defeat, but Ben-Hur prevents him from committing suicide. Ben-Hur and Arrius are rescued, and Arrius is credited with the Roman fleet's victory. The consul successfully petitions Emperor Tiberius  to free Ben-Hur, and adopts him as his son. Several years pass off-screen. Now wealthy, Ben-Hur learns Roman ways and becomes a champion charioteer, but longs for his family and homeland. Ben-Hur returns to Judea. Along the way, he meets Balthasar  and an Arab sheik, Ilderim . The sheik has heard of Ben-Hur's prowess as a charioteer, and asks him to drive his quadriga in a race before the new Judean governor Pontius Pilate . Ben-Hur declines, even after he learns that champion charioteer Messala will also compete. Ben-Hur returns to his home in Jerusalem. He meets Esther, and learns her arranged marriage did not occur and that she is still in love with him. He visits Messala and demands his mother and sister's freedom. The Romans discover that Miriam and Tirzah contracted leprosy in prison, and expel them from the city. The women beg Esther to conceal their condition from Ben-Hur, so she tells him that his mother and sister died. It is then that he changes his mind and decides to seek vengeance on Messala by competing against him in the chariot race. During the chariot race, Messala drives a chariot with blades on the hubs to tear apart competing vehicles. In the violent and grueling race, Messala attempts to destroy Ben-Hur's chariot but destroys his own instead. Messala is mortally injured, while Ben-Hur wins the race. Before dying, Messala tells Ben-Hur that "the race is not over" and that he can find his family "in the Valley of the Lepers, if you can recognize them." Ben-Hur visits the nearby leper colony, where  he sees his mother and sister. Esther hears Jesus preach the Sermon on the Mount, and tells Ben-Hur about the message of peace and forgiveness she heard. Blaming Roman rule for his family's fate, Ben-Hur rejects his patrimony and Roman citizenship. Learning that Tirzah is dying, Ben-Hur and Esther take her and Miriam to see Jesus, but the trial of Jesus before Pontius Pilate has begun. Jesus begins his march to Calvary and stumbles before Ben-Hur. Recognizing Jesus from their earlier meeting, Ben-Hur attempts to give him water but guards separate them. Ben-Hur witnesses the crucifixion of Jesus. Miriam and Tirzah are miraculously healed. Ben-Hur tells Esther that he heard Jesus talk of forgiveness while on the cross, and says "I felt His voice take the sword out of my hand."The film is set in 1918 in an unnamed small town. A widow  impulsively hires handyman  to look after her house. She soon learns Ryan is a dangerous schizophrenic, but by the time she comes to this realization she is unable to leave her house and escape from him.Frontiersman Elias "Big Eli" Wakefield  decides to leave 1820s Kentucky and move to Texas with his son "Little Eli" ([[Donald MacDonald . Along the way, they run into two women who take a liking to the pair, indentured servant Hannah , who wants to go with them, and schoolteacher Susie , who would rather have Big Eli marry her and settle down. Big Eli also has to deal with villainous Stan Bodine , who cracks a mean bullwhip.A romantic melodrama depicting the extramarital dalliances of a professor and his wife who works at a boutique. Oh Sun-young accepts a job as a cosmetics store manager to supplement her husband's small income as a professor. Their next door neighbor frequently professes his attraction to her, and she allows him to teach her dancing and introduce her to alcohol. Her boss' husband also begins a flirtation with her which escalates to the point of being found by his wife as they are about to consummate their "dating." Meanwhile, her husband faces a strong attraction to a pretty woman in a grammar class he teaches for secretaries, frequently staying out late walking with her, though he resists her request to take matters further. Her neglect of their son, coupled with anonymous warnings her husband receives about her behavior, result in her being thrown out of the home – the film closes with her weeping outside the gate as her husband and son look on.Synopsis from {{cite web}}It first follows the aging and eccentric Rudolf II, who refuses to hear out ambassadors and falls into fits, destroying vases and dishes. The conflict between he and his brother Matthias, is demonstrated here. He welcomes Magister Edward Kelly in his palace and shows him around. He keeps an alchemist laboratory in his palace, where generally either swindlers or fools work . There is also a character who, when the Emperor asks him of his doings, always begins to babble in a senseless language .  One character, Alessandro Scotta , appears repeatedly: instead of experimenting, he cooks sausages and approaches the emperor with a cleaning product, with which he immediately cleans the floor, making it slippery and causing another person to slip, to the amusement of the Emperor. Rudolf is obsessed with finding the Golem. He and Scotta later accidentally stumble upon him while performing a magic ritual . But he does not have the Shem and cannot awaken him. The movie then follows a baker, Matew, Matěj  who is confronted with angry people who want bread but cannot receive it, because it is meant for royalty. He is later imprisoned in the dungeons for spreading bread to poor people. Later on, Kelly reveals his homunculus, to whom the Emperor wishes to teach everything of our world . She and Matěj communicate through vents between Kelly's room and the dungeons. Later the Emperor takes part in what is supposed to make him young again by Alessandro Scotta's drink of youth . Then he and his entourage ride on a carriage to country side to remind themselves of the sins of their misspent youth. Meanwhile Matěj escapes the dungeons. Unknowing subjects of the Emperor find the fugitive  in a bath and, believing the rejuvenation to have worked out hold him for the emperor. Matěj gets into an embarrassed scene with the emperor's "consort" . He believes he killed her and puts her on top of a two-story bed. A sphere of intrigue  between the emperor's councilors is shown and all basically want the shem, which a hound is spotted to have. Matěj  sits as a table with Tycho de Brahe and talks about planets and as the astronomer demonstrates the moving of planets with the wine grails, he mixes a wine grail with poison, arranged by the councilors. They are stunned, unknowing which grail is the poisoned one, take theirs on Matěj's demands. The situation escalates, as the Golem is awakened and destroys the general, who wanted to use him to conquer the whole world. The Emperor returns and chaos is at large. The Matěj manages to reason Golem into stopping and then uses his power to bake for the poor.The Stooges wish to marry their sweethearts, but are forbidden by Old King Cole  until Princess Alisha  weds Prince Gallant III of Rhododendron "when the flowers bloom in the Spring." Unfortunately, evil magician Murgatroyd  has his own plans to marry Alisha, and promptly abducts her. The Stooges do their best to foil his plot.{{Plot}}  'MADRID, SPAIN 1956' The camera slowly pans to the right and reveals a Spanish house, and goes inside to the sound of a flamenco guitar. As the camera reveals that Lightning is playing the guitar while leaning against a couch, Jerry, or as his mousehole says, "El Magnífico", comes dancing out of his hole and then brings back a small wedge of cheese. Meanwhile, the Spanish owner of the house  comes in the room, sees Jerry, and taps her foot impatiently at Lightning. In Spanish, Lightning complements the señorita  about her good looks today, until he finally agrees to chase Jerry. He dives at the mouse eating his cheese on the carpet, and Jerry strategically raises the carpet and himself such that the cat goes underneath the carpet and runs into a table. Lightning is unfazed and returns the other way, but the mouse ties his tail to another table and is drawn back into it, and then smashed by the top of the table. Lightning's legs, tail, and head pop out akin to a turtle. Now, the cat dives at the mouse next to his El Magnífico hole, and he lifts himself out of the way again, leaving the cat to pitch and jump directly into his guitar where he left it, on the couch. Jerry, having defeated Lightning, dances back into his hole. The poor cat, head poking through his guitar, proclaims it is no use. Joan responds by saying that is because he is lazy - the laziest cat, in fact, that she has ever seen! Lightning is hurt, and responds that nobody could catch "El Magnífico". Therefore, she commands him to read a telegram which says "Arriving today from U.S.A., Guarantee to catch mouse ....Tom, Olympic, U.S. and World Champion Mouse Catcher." Tom Cat arrives at the door with numerous medals and trophies beside him. The cat, being from America, uses a guide book to help him speak Spanish. He tells the señorita: "How are you, ma'am?" in Spanish, obviously struggling with the language, particularly on the "señorita". However, she waves this off as good manners, and then leaves, reaffirming Tom's guarantee to catch the mouse. They bid goodbye in Spanish , and the señorita then snubs Lightning in comparison to Tom. Lightning, whose guitar is repaired, pulls back and lets go of the strings on his instrument at Tom and made him angry. He then said "El Magnificoooooooooooooo...". He approaches Jerry, who enters inside his hole with a banana. Tom uses a stethoscope to detect Jerry in the wall, marks the spot , drills a hole in the spot , and then pulls the mouse out with a fireplace blower. The cat stuffs Jerry into a small cannon, lights it, and holds the door open for the mouse as he is thrown out of the house. Triumphant with no trouble at all, Tom claps his hands. However, Jerry pops right back in via a small door panel at the bottom of the door. Tom kicks him out a second time, and Jerry comes back in through one of the higher panels, which falls on Tom's head. Jerry does a different dance this time, making sure to step on the board repeatedly. As Jerry is coming close to the El Magnífico hole, Tom begins to flamenco along with him and around the room. However, the tables are turned when Jerry directs the dance to a nearby window, which Tom falls through and out of, then down into a fountain. Tom is now incensed. The camera cuts to the front door and Tom shunting the door out of the way. He stops next to Lightning and begins to transform into a bull as bullfight music plays. Lightning is instantly ramped up, and begins to play a guitar tune along with the music as El Magnífico comes out in a matador garb. Tom makes a beeline for the mouse and misses as Jerry eggs him on by saying "Haha!, Toro!, C'mon!" The cat runs at him again, and Jerry, blindfolded, jumps in the air and the red cape swirls like a tutu in the air. The camera cuts to Lightning cheering "¡Ole!" with progressively higher emotion, until he sees Tom crash into a table and a small piece of pottery cracks over his head. So Jerry opens Tom's eye and waves the red cape in it, causing it to spin and the cat to wake up. Tom lunges, but he misses a third time and slides into Jerry's mouse hole, taking the mouse along on top of him. Jerry revives the "bull" by smacking him in his rear with the cape. Now, the cat is angry, but the fourth lunge leads to the cat simply disappearing into the cape as Jerry holds it out. After showing there is nothing on either side of it, Jerry hurls Tom out of the cape, and then plays guitar on Tom's whiskers. This gets the cat to continue the chase, and he turns in all directions to attempt to corner the mouse against the wall. However, Jerry escapes this and makes circles around the floor, causing Tom to wrap himself up in a pretzel shape. The camera now cuts to Jerry victoriously carrying his trophy as Lightning and a recorded clip of a Spanish crowd acclaim "¡Ole!". Joan returns to find both Lightning and Tom playing guitar, and demands to know what is going on. Lightning responds, "Señorita, I told you: Nadie, absolutely no one, can catch El Magnífico!" In Spanish, he asks Tom if this is true. Tom says it is true and resume guitar playing. The owner sees Jerry, who pulls some fruits  to his hole.In the early twentieth century, after the death of her mother, the young Manuela is admitted to a boarding school for girls where the headmistress imposes a rigid discipline. Manuela projects all her affection onto Miss Elisabeth von Bernburg, only supervisor to show her any kindness. At boarding school, at a party where alcohol flows a little freely, Manuela creates a scandal by loudly proclaiming her love for Miss von Bernburg. Her later suicide attempt prompts the headmistress to review her methods while Elisabeth von Bernburg resigns.When Philip Ashley's ([[Richard Burton  much-loved  cousin Ambrose ([[John Sutton  dies, he is convinced that Ambrose was murdered by his new wife Rachel  to inherit his wealth. But when he meets Rachel and falls in love with her, he knows that his suspicions must have been unfounded. But were they, or is Rachel just trying to use Philip to get at the estate Ambrose left to him instead of her? And will she murder him next?When a visiting American senator decides to make Paris off-limits to rowdy military personnel, the daughter of the Ambassador to France decides to show him that American servicemen can be gentlemen by dating one of them without revealing her lofty social status.Shanta  is a beautiful village girl . Her neighbour Vasanth  loves her without her knowledge. Kampanna Dora  frequently raids over the villages and loots the inhabitants. Jayanth  is his main associate. One day Jayanth attacks the village, wherein Shanta lives. While robbing the people, Shanta slaps him and argues convincingly how bad his way of life affects their livelihood. This incident changes him and makes him leave his association with Kampanna. He lives with the villagers and trains the youth in fighting skills. Gradually Jayanth and Shanta loves each other. Unable to tolerate this Jayanth and Vasanth had a fight. When Shanta expresses her love for Jayanth, Vasanth accepts it and get them married. The angry Kampanna attacks the village to destroy them. Jayanth and his child were taken away. Shanta suspects Vasanth's involvement. Then Vasant goes to the hub of Kampanna and fights with them and saves Jayanth and his child. He loses his life in this attempt.Wealthy, newly retired sea captain James McKay  travels to the American West to join his fiancée Patricia  at the enormous ranch owned by her father, Major Terrill . Terrill has been feuding with Rufus Hannassey , the patriarch of a poorer, less refined ranching clan. Patricia's friend, schoolteacher Julie Maragon , owns the "Big Muddy", a large ranch with a vital water supply. She is caught in the middle of the Terrill-Hannassey feud, as she has been allowing Hannassey to use her water for his cattle, while Terrill has been trying to buy her land in order to put Hannassey out of business. McKay refuses to be provoked into proving his manhood, having sworn off such behavior since his father died in a meaningless duel. He does nothing to stop Hannassey's trouble-making son Buck  from harassing him, and he declines a challenge by Terrill's foreman, Steve Leech , to ride an unruly horse. Patricia, Terrill, and Leech consider this to be cowardly in view of the region's lawlessness. When Terrill and the men ride to the Hannassey place in retribution for Buck's harassment, McKay stays at the ranch and successfully rides the unruly horse while telling no one except ranch hand Ramon . One morning, after instructing Ramon to tell the others not to worry about him, McKay rides to the Big Muddy, using a map and compass to navigate the terrain, and persuades Julie to sell him her land by promising to continue her policy of allowing both the Terrills and the Hannasseys access to the river. Meanwhile, a search party spends two days looking for McKay, believing he is lost. McKay finds the search party and explains that he was not in danger, but Leech — who is clearly motivated in part by his jealousy of McKay over Patricia — calls him a liar in front of Patricia and Terrill. McKay again refuses to be goaded into a fight, and he and Patricia agree to reconsider their engagement after she becomes upset at his apparent cowardice. Early the next morning, before anybody else is up, McKay settles with Leech. They fight away from the house, without witnesses, to an exhausted draw. After that, Leech begins to respect McKay. Later, after McKay has moved into town, Julie tells Patricia that he bought the Big Muddy and privately rode the horse, and Patricia visits him. When he tells her he plans to allow water access to the Hannasseys, she becomes enraged and they break the engagement permanently. Meanwhile, on Terrill's orders, Leech and his men chase Hannassey's cattle away from the Big Muddy. Hannassey, in retaliation, kidnaps Julie and uses her as bait to lure Terrill into an ambush in the narrow canyon leading to Hannassey's home. Buck tries to rape her, but his father stops him. When McKay finds out about Julie, for whom his own feelings have been becoming increasingly obvious, he rides to the Hannassey place with Ramon. Buck tells Julie he will kill McKay unless she says she is there willingly. McKay shows Hannassey the deed to Big Muddy and promises him equal access to the water. When Hannassey says he intends to fight Terrill anyway, McKay declares to Hannassey that the fight is really a personal vendetta. McKay and Buck fight with each other, but Hannassey stops the conflict when Buck draws his gun on McKay, who is unarmed, and decides they will settle their quarrel with a formal duel. After walking apart ten paces, both men turn and aim. Buck fires before the signal, grazing McKay's forehead. Hannassey prepares to kill Buck, as required by the rules, but McKay stops him. As McKay slowly and deliberately takes aim, Buck drops to the ground in terror and crawls behind a wheel. McKay fires into the dirt, and Hannassey spits on Buck in disgust. As McKay and Julie start to leave, Buck grabs a gun from a ranch hand in order to kill McKay, but Hannassey shoots his son dead. {{listen}} Meanwhile, Terrill insists on riding into the canyon. Initially, Leech refuses to accompany him, and the other men follow his lead. However, after Terrill rides out alone, Leech catches up with him. The remaining hands again align themselves with Leech by following. The group soon rides into a trap in the canyon. Acknowledging the truth of McKay's accusation, Hannassey orders his men to stop shooting and challenges Terrill to a one-on-one showdown. Hannassey and Terrill kill each other, and McKay, Julie, and Ramon ride out of the canyon together.The story follows the fortunes of Simon Sparrow , starting as a new medical student at the fictional St Swithin's Hospital in London. His five years of student life, involving drinking, dating women, and falling foul of the rigid hospital authorities, provide many humorous incidents. When he has to leave his first choice of lodgings to get away from his landlady's amorous daughter , he ends up with three amiable but less-than-shining fellow students as flatmates: *Richard Grimsdyke . A relative had left him a small but adequate annuity while he remains in medical school, so he sees to it that he flunks each year. *Tony Benskin , an inveterate woman chaser. *Taffy Evans , a rugby fanatic. Towering over them all is the short-tempered, demanding chief surgeon, Sir Lancelot Spratt , who strikes terror into everyone. Simon's friends cajole him into a series of disastrous dates, first with a placidly uninterested "Rigor Mortis" , then with Isobel , a woman with very expensive tastes, and finally with Joy , a nurse at St Swithin's. After a rocky start, he finds he likes Joy a great deal. Meanwhile, Richard is given an ultimatum by his fiancée Stella  – graduate or she will leave him. He buckles down. The climax of the film is a rugby match with a rival medical school during Simon's fifth and final year. After St Swithin's wins, the other side tries to steal the school mascot, a stuffed gorilla, resulting in a riot and car chase through the streets of London. Simon and his friends are almost expelled for their part in this by the humourless Dean of St Swithin's . When Simon helps Joy sneak into the nurses' residence after curfew, he accidentally falls through a skylight. This second incident gets him expelled, even though he is a short time away from completing his finals. Sir Lancelot, however, has fond memories of his own student days, particularly of the Dean's own youthful indiscretion . His discreet blackmail gets Simon reinstated. In the end, Richard fails , but Stella decides to enroll at St Swithin's herself so there will be at least one doctor in the family. Simon and Taffy graduate.Boxing fan Sonya Bartow and manager Pop Richardson are both impressed the first time they see amateur Paul Callan win a fight. They are more amazed, and Sonya somewhat appalled, when they discover later that Paul is deaf. Pop agrees to train him, even though he's still not quite over the death in the ring of a former protege. A romantic relationship begins with Sonya, but she refuses to marry Paul until he's a champion. She impatiently pushes Pop to set up a title fight, even if he isn't ready yet. When a reporter, Ann Hollis, comes to interview Paul, she uses sign language. Sonya mocks it as a "dummy" language and Paul explains that he has always been reluctant to use it. Ann begins seeing Paul socially, takes him to a deaf-children's school and introduces him to her deaf father, a successful architect. Sonya drunkenly threatens to kill Ann if she doesn't leave Paul alone. A doctor performs an operation that restores Paul's hearing. He rushes to Ann's house, but a party there is so noisy that it confuses and overwhelms him. Paul goes back to Sonya and is excitedly told that a fight's been arranged with Logan, the champ. Paul discovers that Sonya has hidden a telegram from the doctor, explaining that a beating in the ring could cause him to again go deaf. Sonya bets heavily on the fight, but on Paul to lose. The punches he absorbs cause his hearing to fade. With all the distracting noise tuned out, Paul rallies to win the fight. He reunites with Ann, and is relieved when he can hear her speak.A chorus girl is given top billing in a broke producer's show after rumours link her with a millionaire, played by David Niven, in Scotland.Børge Rasmussen is in love with Elvie Hansen. During a visit at doctor Kermer's, Børge steals a small fortune in cash. Together with Elvie, he runs off to Copenhagen. On their way there, Elvie breaks up. In Copenhagen, the saboteur Verner seeks out Børge, convincing him to go to Canada, bringing a briefcase for a friend of Verner's. Børges friend, Marinus, finds out that there is a bomb in the briefcase, but on his way to warn Børge, Marinus is murdered. Before dying, though, he manages to tell doctor Kermer about the bomb. Together with Elvie, Kermer now leaves for Copenhagen to save Børge.Édouard and Caroline are preparing for a family evening during which Édouard will be expected to play the piano. Lacking a dinner jacket Édouard goes to borrow one from his wife's cousin. In the meantime Caroline attempts to re-model her dress to bring it more up-to-date. Her husband is not pleased and the evening consists of rows, fights and threats of divorce. It is the early morning before life returns to normal.Eve White is a timid, self-effacing wife and mother who has severe and blinding headaches and occasional blackouts. Eventually she is sent to see a personality psychiatrist Dr. Luther, and while having a conversation, her "alter personality", wild, fun-loving Eve Black, discloses herself. Eve Black knows everything about Eve White, but Eve White is unaware of Eve Black. With Eve Black on the loose, Eve White's husband leaves her and abandons their daughter, Bonnie. Eve White is sent to an asylum after Eve Black tries to kill Eve White's daughter. Dr. Luther considers both Eve White and Eve Black to be incomplete and inadequate personalities. Most of the film depicts Luther's attempts to understand and deal with these two faces of Eve. He eventually prompts her to remember a traumatic event in Eve’s childhood. Her beloved grandmother had died when she was six, and according to family custom relatives were supposed to kiss the dead person at the viewing, making it easier for them to let go. Eve's grief and terror led to her "splitting off" into two distinctly different personalities. Under hypnosis at one session, a third personality appears, the relatively stable Jane. After discovering the cause of her disorder, Jane is gradually able to remember everything that has ever happened to all three personalities. When Luther asks to speak with Eve White, they discover that Eve White and Eve Black no longer exist. All three personalities are once again a single whole. She marries a man named Earl whom she met when she was Jane and reunites with her daughter Bonnie.Red Nichols  is a small-town cornet player who moves to New York City in the 1920s and finds work in a band led by Wil Paradise . He meets and marries singer Bobbie Meredith , and the two form their own Dixieland band called "The Five Pennies" (a play on Nichols' name, since a [[Nickel . As their popularity peaks, their young daughter Dorothy  contracts polio and the family leaves the music business, moving to Los Angeles. When Dorothy becomes a teen  she learns of her father's music career and persuades him go on a comeback tour. The tour borders on failure until several notable musicians from Nichols' past appear to save the day.Viruta and Capulina are two brothers who are trying to invent a system in which water works as a substitute for gas for vehicles. Don Caritino, their landlord, has tried to get their fourteen-month due rent. Viruta and Capulina refuse to pay their due rent, so Don Caritino proposes them to convince their goddaughter Gloria to date him, and he'll let them forget about the rent. But Viruta and Capulina are surprised when they are told they have inherited, along with their cousin Reynaldo, their great uncle's monetary estate and mansion in "El callejón de las ánimas". There is a hidden treasure in the mansion that their great uncle tried to find. The mansion's butler and his wife, urgingly tying to find the treasure, scare Viruta, Capulina, Gloria, and Reynaldo out of the house so that their plan they can go on with their searching. Their luck turns around when Reynaldo calls the sheriff to arrest the butler and his wife. Viruta and Capulina show their water-energy invention to the sheriff in the butler's car, but the butler had poured gasoline into the gas compartment a few moments before. So Capulina lights a match and pours it in, and an explosion occurs. The explosion cracked a column where the treasure was hidden, Viruta and Capulina found the treasure and gives some to the sheriff But Reynaldo's greatest treasure is Gloria , who has developed a romantic relationship with him.The film is set in the backdrops of a circus. Chandran is a circus performer. Thankam, a beautiful 17 year old girl, is his childhood sweetheart. But, Thankam's mother Kalyani Amma forbids her to prolong her affair with Chandran. She wants Thankam to marry Gopi, a well known bully from the town. Thankam's father Paithal Nair, however rejects this proposal. But as the circus shifts to another village, everything goes wrong. The circus people owed some money to Paithal Nair which they were unable to pay. Despite the circus manager's assurances Kalyani Amma and Nair decide to hold the circus animals hostage until the circus manager repays his debt. Managing the animals soon becomes a nightmare and Paithal and family realize they have invited trouble . Paithal Nair is in financial stress and has no other way than to accept the marriage proposal from Gopi for his daughter. What will happen to Chandran and Thankam's romance? How does Paithal Nair overcome his problems? Answers to these questions form the rest of the story.Seafaring saga of two brothers and the woman they both love. Set against South Pacific islands, this love triangle pits the good brother against the bad as they squabble over a woman and a bag of pearls on the floor of a lagoon; the bad boy redeems himself, however, by helping fend off a mutiny.Vineyard owner Alvah Morrell and his girl Lee Kingshead elope to Las Vegas before he must return to active military duty. They are unable to have a honeymoon because Alvah comes down with a case of chicken pox and Lee must be quarantined from him. Alvah leaves for 10 months. During this time, Lee finds no suitable way or time to tell her manipulative mother about the marriage. Mama pretends to have fainting spells and hides her personal foibles, which include smoking and gambling. Mama's goal is to marry Lee to the wealthy Herman Stouple, who owns a thriving cement business. Mama hopes to keep the married couple apart so that their union will never be consummated and can be legally annulled. By the time Alvah returns, so many people are pressuring him to sell his vineyard land and home to Herman that he feels alone, particularly when others conspire to have Alvah declared mentally ill and unable to conduct his own affairs. He must trust Lee to do the right thing, and soon they're finally spending their first night together.The year is 1928. Samuel Fulton is an old and lonely New York millionaire who has decided to leave his fortune to the family of the late Millicent Blaisdell. Millicent is the only woman he has ever been in love with and they shortly dated, until she dumped him because she did not return his love. Samuel explains to his lawyer Edward Norton that losing the love of his life was what inspired him to build up a career as a wealthy businessman, eventually becoming the richest man in the world. Fearing the family will spend the money the wrong way, he decides to visit them in a small Vermont town, faking a newspaper advertisement to board a room under the alias John Smith. The family is initially reluctant to take in Samuel, but Roberta, the youngest daughter, wastes no time and makes him feel as welcome as possible. He notices that the Blaisdells are a happy family who, although poor, are proud of their background. Father Charles has taught the family not to put a value on materialistic products. Nevertheless, mother Harriet wishes for her daughter Millicent to marry Carl Pennock, a wealthy but snobbish young man who could buy Millicent everything that Harriet never had. Millicent, however, is not keen on Carl and prefers to marry Dan Stebbins, a charming but poor soda jerk. While staying at the Blaisdells, 'John' is given a job at Dan's store. One night, Millie and Dan announce their engagement, which upsets Harriet. Shortly after, Norton arrives, announcing the family has inherited $100,000 from an unknown man. When realizing Norton is not joking, the family – especially Harriet – immediately gives up their humble life for the upper-class life style. Charles is not enthusiastic of his wife's sudden craze of materialism, but allows her to buy whatever she wants. The oldest son Howard immediately starts gambling a large amount of money and lands a debt, which prompts Samuel to help him. Meanwhile, Dan, feeling he could never live up to Millie's expectations, breaks off their engagement. Afterwards, Millie reluctantly starts dating Carl again, much under the pressure of her mother. Samuel helps both Millie and Howard escape from a raid, which results in his being jailed. Soon, Harriet feels that Samuel's presence is ruining the family image, unaware of the reason why he ended up in jail. In this period, he is supported only by Dan, who admits his intentions of leaving town to build a career. Trying to prevent Millie and Dan from disappearing out of each other's life, he sets up a meeting at the cinema. There, an argument follows, and Millie exclaims her hatred for the family's sudden wealth, complaining that it is the cause of all bad things happening to her. She is comforted by Samuel, and thereby attracts the attention of other theatre-goers, who suspect that Sam and Millie are in a scandalous affair. During a social party, there is gossip of the so-called affair, which prompts Harriet to force Millie to announce her engagement to Carl. Meanwhile, Charles announces he has lost his investments, which makes Samuel realize that the Blaisdells are in no position of making wise financial decisions. Obligated by Samuel, Norton refuses a loan, after which Charles begs the Pennocks for money. Carl then realizes that Millie is not from a wealthy family and leaves her. Much to Harriet's distress, the Blaisdell family returns to their old lifestyle. At the end, Roberta reveals that 'John' has won the first prize at an art show, having secretly entered his paintings. Samuel immediately leaves the house to avoid the press, and realizes that the Blaisdells now think of him as the grandfather he could have been.Princess Ann of Truania arrives at Louie's Sweet Shop. She is the daughter of the exiled king and is looking for Louie, whose brother is a valuable assistance to the king back in Truania. They request the boys assistance to safeguard a half-coin for them. The other half will be delivered to them with a message when it is safe for the king to return to his country and regain control. The king's assistant, Colonel Baxis and Zelda, Ann's lady-in-waiting are traitors and are immediately distrusted by the boys. The traitor's intend to send a fake half-coin to the boys in order to get the king to return to his country too soon so that he can be arrested. Ann overhears the plot and is kidnapped. Eventually the boys rescue Ann and convince the king that his assistant is a traitor.Set in rural Bengal of the 1920s, Pather Panchali focuses on the lives of Apu , the young protagonist of the film, and his family members. Apu's impoverished family lives in the dilapidated ancestral home in the village Nischindipur. Apu's father Harihar Ray  earns a meager living as a priest, and dreams of a better career as an author of scholarly plays and poems. He is easily exploited in his work — he cannot even muster the courage to ask his employer for overdue wages, although his family is in dire need of money. Harihar's wife, Sarbajaya  takes care of their two children, Durga  and Apu, and her elderly aunt-in-law, Indir Thakrun . With limited resources, Sarbajaya resents having to share her home with Indir. Indir is very old, toothless, and a hunchback cripple. Occasionally, she takes refuge in the home of another relative when Sarbajaya either forces her out or becomes overly offensive. Durga often steals fruit from a neighbour’s orchard and shares it with Aunt Indir, with whom she feels some filial affinity. Once, the wealthy neighbour blamed Durga for stealing a bead necklace. Sarbajaya bears the neighbour's innuendos blaming her for Durga’s propensity to steal. Durga, as the elder sister, cares for her brother Apu with motherly affection, although she does not spare any opportunity to tease him. They share the simple joys of life, such as sitting quietly under a tree, running after the candy man who passes through the village, viewing pictures in a bioscope shown by a traveling vendor, and watching a jatra by a troupe of actors. In the evening, they can hear the whistle of trains far away. One day they run away from home to catch a glimpse of the train. The scene depicting Apu and Durga running through Kaash fields to see the train is one of the memorable sequences in the film.<ref name237–238}} While returning from seeing the train, they discover their Aunt Indir lying dead there. Harihar, unable to make a good earning in the village, decides to travel to nearby cities to search for a better job. He promises Sarbajaya that he will return with money to repair their derelict house. During his absence, the family sinks even deeper into poverty. Sarbajaya grows increasingly lonely and embittered. The monsoon approaches and storm clouds gather. One day, Durga dances playfully in the downpour for a long time. Soon she catches cold, and develops a fever. With scarce medical care available, her fever continues and eventually on a night of incessant rain and gusty winds, she dies. Harihar returns home and starts to show Sarbajaya the merchandise he has brought from the city. Sarbajaya, who remains silent, breaks down at the feet of her husband, and Harihar screams as he discovers that he has lost his daughter. The family decides to leave the village and their ancestral home. As they start packing, Apu finds the necklace that Durga had earlier denied having stolen; he throws it into a pond. The film ends with Apu and his parents riding a slow ox-cart to their new destination. Almost immediately upon their departure, a snake crawls into the house.Maggie Prescott  is a fashion magazine publisher and editor, for Quality magazine, who is looking for the next big fashion trend. She wants a new look for the magazine. Maggie wants the look to be both "beautiful" and "intellectual". She and famous fashion photographer Dick Avery  want models who can "think as well as they look." The two brainstorm and come up with the idea to find a "sinister" looking book store in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Manhattan. They subsequently locate a bookstore named "Embryo Concepts". Maggie and Dick take over Embryo Concepts, which is being run by the shy bookshop clerk and amateur philosopher, Jo Stockton . Jo thinks the fashion and modeling industry is nonsense, saying: "it is chichi, and an unrealistic approach to self-impressions as well as economics". Maggie decides to use Jo in the first fashion shot, to give it a more intellectual look. After the first shot Maggie locks Jo out of the shop to shut her up. Jo wants more than anything else in the world to go to Paris and attend the famous philosopher and professor Emile Flostre's  lectures about empathicalism. When Dick gets back to the dark room, he sees something in Jo's face which is "new" and "fresh", and which would be perfect for the campaign, giving it "character", "spirit", and "intelligence". They send for Jo, pretending they want to order some books from her shop. Once she arrives, they start treating her like a doll, trying to make her over, pulling at her clothes and attempting to cut her hair. She is outraged and runs away, only to hide in the darkroom where Dick is working. When Dick mentions Paris, Jo becomes very interested in that she would get a chance to see Professor Flostre, and is finally convinced to model. Soon Maggie, Dick, and Jo are off to Paris to prepare for a major fashion event, shooting photos at famous landmarks from the area. During the various photo shoots Jo and Dick develop feelings for each other, and they fall in love. One night when Jo is getting ready for a gala, she learns that Professor Flostre is giving a lecture at a cafe nearby. She attends, forgetting the gala. Eventually Dick finds her and they get into an argument at the gala's opening, which results in Jo being publicly embarrassed and Maggie outraged. Jo goes to talk to Professor Flostre at his home. Through some scheming, Maggie and Dick make it into Flostre's home. After performing an impromptu song and dance for Flostre's disciples, they confront Jo and Flostre. This eventually leads to Dick causing Flostre to fall and knock himself out. Jo urges them to leave. When Flostre wakes up, he tries to make a pass at Jo. Shocked at the behavior of her "idol", she smashes a vase over his head and runs out. Before the group leaves for home, there is a final fashion show. Jo and Maggie try to get in touch with Dick, who has made plans to leave Paris. Jo does the runway show and before her wedding gown finale, she looks out the window and sees the plane Dick was supposed to be on, take off. Heartbroken, she runs off the runway in tears at the conclusion of the show. Meanwhile, Dick is at the airport. He runs into Flostre and learns that Jo bashed him on the head with a vase. Dick, realizing how much he cares, goes back to find Jo. He goes back to the runway show, only to find that Jo is nowhere to be found. Finally, after a long search, Dick finds Jo  by a little church where they shared a romantic moment during the photo shoot. They embrace and kiss.Set at the end of the Spanish–American War in 1898, the film focuses on three sisters of grumpy and overprotective Irish widower Dennis O'Grady ([[James Barton . The oldest, Katie , welcomes her fresh husband James Moore  from the army, whom she has married in secret. Meanwhile, the youngest two Patricia  and Maureen  pass a vaudeville theater owned by Tony Pastor . She recognizes the man from earlier that afternoon for mocking her father - since he was begging for food. She enters to scold him for his actions, though her attraction towards him softens her. Meanwhile, Dennis is advised by his companion Miklos  to warn his daughters about the immoral behavior of most men before it is too late. He is not aware of Katie's marriage and pregnancy, nor Patricia's flirtations with a vaudeville actor. Since the death of his wife Rosie - a famous vaudeville actress, Dennis has been wary of vaudeville, feeling that the hard life of vaudevillians has been the cause of Rosie's death. When she is caught by her father for accompanying Tony, Patricia lies that Tony is a college student. Dennis is impressed by the young man, and decides that he would be perfect to date Katie. Patricia is upset about how matters are turning out, though keeps quiet, afraid of her father's judgment. One day during a dinner, Patricia tells Tony that she is interested in joining him on the stage. Tony, however, feels that she is unable to do so until she tells her father the truth. Dennis is outraged when he learns about Tony's connections to the vaudeville, and forces him to give up his job, as well as locking Patricia in her room. Patricia sneaks out, though, and abandons her father to join Tony on the stage. There, she quickly becomes a big hit. Dennis, meanwhile, learns that one of his daughters is expecting twins, and decides that Patricia must be her. Devastated, he gets drunk and gets in trouble with the police. Sometime later, Tony helps Katie and James find an apartment. When Dennis finds out about this, he disowns all his daughters . Lonely, Dennis becomes ill and by Christmas, fears for his life. Patricia is informed by Miklos about her father's health, and quickly gathers her sisters and their lovers to take care of him. Dennis initially does not accept his company, until he finds out that Katie has just given birth to triplets. Ending the story, Patricia and Tony get engaged.Frances Lawrence  is about to turn 17 years old and is on her summer break between her junior and senior years of high school. She resists the pressure to go "manhunting" with her girlfriends and laments the days when the girls had fun together without boys. Frances also rejects her parents wishing to fix her up on a date with the son of a friend of the family, Jeffrey Matthews. On a jaunt to the beach with her bikini-clad girlfriends, flat-chested tomboy Frances meets surfer Moondoggie . She quickly becomes infatuated with him, but he shows no romantic interest, however Frances is more attracted to surfing than man hunting. At home, Francie importunes her parents for $25 for a used surfboard. Russ and Dorothy Lawrence  grant their daughter's request as an early birthday present and the excited youngster returns to the beach to surf. The gang dubs their female associate "Gidget", a portmanteau word based on 'girl' and 'midget'. She associates with an all-male surfer gang led by the worldly beach bum, The Kahuna . Kahuna is a Korean War Air Force veteran twice the age of Frances who was fed up with all the rules he had to live by when he flew combat missions and dropped out of normal society. He travels the hemisphere surfing with his pet bird. Moondoggie admires Kahuna and wants to emulate him by joining Kahuna in working his way on a freighter to go surfing in Peru at summer's end instead of going off to university as his self-made father planned. Kahuna and Gidget enjoy each other's company with Gidget questioning how he can survive an aimless and lonely existence without a job. She questions whether if Kahuna knew then what he knew now would he still make the same lifestyle choice after leaving the Air Force. Kahuna later reflects on Gidget's words after the death of his only friend, the pet bird. Hoping to make Moondoggie jealous, Gidget hires one of the other surfers in the gang to be her date to a luau party on the beach. Her plan backfires when the surfer she hired pawns the job off on none other than Moondoggie, unaware that he was the one Gidget wanted to make jealous. Gidget lies and tells Moondoggie that it is Kahuna that she wants to make jealous, and they have a romantic evening at the luau. Eventually Moondoggie says something that upsets Gidget and, as she flees the luau, she runs into Kahuna and agrees to take him to a nearby beach house. Alone with Kahuna, Gidget tries to make Kahuna take her virginity. Amused, Kahuna attempts to call Gidget's bluff by pretending to take her up on her offer but finds himself falling under her spell. Realizing what he was about to do and angry at the situation he's been put in, Kahuna throws her out of the beach house just as Moondoggie arrives. Gidget is mortified and escapes out the back of the beach house as Moondoggie confronts Kahuna. The cops are called to break up the fight between Kahuna and Moondoggie and, after leaving the beach house, they find Gidget stranded with a flat tire and without her driver's license. They bring her in to the police station. Gidget's father, having heard about the incident decides to take over control of her social life, and orders her not to see the surfer gang again. She falls into a depression, to which mother shows her a tapestry from her grandmother reading "A Real Woman brings out the best in a Man". In the end, Mr. Lawrence arranges a date for Gidget with Jeffrey Matthews that Frances grudgingly accepts. To her surprise, Matthews turns out to be Moondoggie. The two return to the beach to find Kahuna tearing down his beach shack and find out that he's taken a job as an airline pilot. Moondoggie and Gidget realize how they feel about each other and, as an act of romantic devotion, Moondoggie asks Gidget to wear his class pin. Kahuna cheefully warns Moondoggie that Gidget is quite a woman.King Arthur  establishes the greatest reign England has ever seen through peace and prosperity, and along for the ride are his indispensable Knights of the Round Table, particularly Sir Lancelot ([[Robert Taylor . Then, Arthur finds himself a bride, the beautiful Guinevere . While she loves Arthur, she also loves Lancelot and though Lancelot repeatedly fights it, he loves her, too. Treachery is brewing as the evil Morgan le Fay  and her knight Sir Modred  work to trap them. Together they murder Arthur's advisor, the magician Merlin, by poisoning him. So begins the decline and eventual fall of Arthur and Camelot. Guenevere enters a convent. At the end, Arthur, and therefore England, fall in battle against Modred and his men. Lancelot seeks out Modred at his castle. He challenges Modred, and he and Modred then enter an epic fight, resulting in Modred's death. Lancelot goes back to the hall of the round table where Percival  sees the Holy Grail. In this version of the legend, Guinevere meets Lancelot before she marries Arthur. In the original legend, unlike the film, Arthur and Modred kill each other in battle, so Lancelot does not have to avenge him. Also, Modred and Morgan Le Fay appear to be lovers, not nephew and aunt as in the original stories, although this is never directly stated.{{cite news}}A Korean War pilot, Pike Yarnell, a major, survives a jet crash in the Pacific Ocean, as does Donald Beasley, his navigator. After many days on a raft, Donald dies. Christina, the dead officer's widow, waits for a full explanation of the circumstances of Donald's death, as do his wealthy Georgia parents and sister. Pike gives them very few details, however, particularly disturbing Virginie Beasley, who wants a Congressman in the family to seek a Congressional Medal of Honor for her brave son. Pike begins to develop feelings for Christina. He can't bring himself to tell her that Donald was actually a poor officer, under investigation, and a coward aboard the raft. Donald revealed near the end that he never loved his wife and hated his mother. In the end, he used Pike's gun to kill himself.Robert , a riding school owner, and his wife Dora  have a seemingly happy marriage until Dora is critically injured in a road accident. Robert and Dora's mother  rush to the hospital to which she has been taken. Believing she is about to die, Dora spitefully asks her mother &ndash; a vulgar, tawdry and heavy-drinking woman &ndash; to put Robert in the picture regarding the true nature of the marriage, so that she can die gloating over his distress. As Dora is taken to the operating theatre, her mother takes vicious pleasure in informing Robert &ndash; who has been reflecting with sadness about happy times and the prospect of losing his wife &ndash; that the marriage has been a sham from the start. Via a series of flashbacks, it is revealed that Dora is a manipulative, conniving and amoral gold-digger. Encouraged by her equally unprincipled mother, she set out to snare Robert purely for access to his finances in order that she  could live a life of ease and outward respectability. In fact she has always despised Robert, mocking his unsuspicious nature and gullibility while amusing herself with a string of lovers. With the riding school business recently failing, Dora had decided that she had taken Robert for as much as she could, and had been planning to leave him for François, a richer lover who could further her social-climbing ambitions. News comes through from the operating theatre that Dora will live, but is permanently paralysed. Robert states his intention to abandon her to her fate, leaving the mother alone with the prospect of having to care for her disabled daughter in straitened financial circumstances.Manèges overview at Films de France Retrieved 23-07-2010With a view to escaping his employers' daughter, who has amorous designs on him, Dr Simon Sparrow  signs on as medical officer on a cargo ship, "SS Lotus". The ship is commanded by hot-tempered and authoritarian Captain Wentworth Hogg. Sparrow overcomes initial seasickness and settles into life on board. After arriving in a South American port , Sparrow meets Hélène Colbert , a sexy young French nightclub singer. The misogynist Captain Hogg is forced to take on two female passengers, Muriel Mallet , the daughter of the chairman of the shipping company, and her friend, Hélène, for the return trip. Romance blossoms between Simon and Hélène, and when they reach home, Helene receives a telegram offering her a job in Rio de Janeiro. She and Sparrow return together. Throughout the trip, Hogg has been romanced by Muriel and eventually becomes engaged to her - with almost certain promotion to Commodore.The drama related the tale of ex-racketeer Chet Chester  who is blackmailed by his former criminal partners. Chester's girlfriend Sally  kills one of his enemies. But Chester takes the blame, assuming that he has still got enough clout to escape with a light sentence. Meanwhile, Dona Williams  flies to Hawaii because she is certain that Chester is her long-lost husband who was thought to have died at Pearl Harbor.In India to purchase some horses, British aristocrat, Lord Esketh and his wife, Edwina , come to the town of Ranchipur at the invitation of the elderly Maharani. Their marriage is an unhappy one and Lord Esketh announces his intention to return to England and begin divorce proceedings. The spoiled, insensitive Edwina scoffs at this. She renews in Ranchipur an acquaintance with a former lover, Tom Ransome, now a dissolute alcoholic. She also meets and attempts to seduce a distinguished Hindu physician, Dr. Rama Safti, a decent man who is the elderly Maharani's personal choice to succeed her someday. Safti at first resists, but ultimately succumbs to Edwina's charms and falls hopelessly in love with her. Lord Esketh becomes aware of this, but Safti saves him from a man-eating tiger during a safari. Safti admits his love for Edwina to Lord Esketh, who is now sympathetic toward this good man's plight. Ransome feels the same way, warning Edwina to stay away from Safti, a friend he admires. Edwina similarly falls into disfavor with the Maharani, who explains that Safti has been raised to lead a pure life and that Edwina is unworthy of him. Ranchipur suddenly is ravaged by a natural disaster, an earthquake and flood. Dr. Safti is so busy saving lives that he cannot personally care for Edwina, who has fallen ill. Ransome looks after her as well as for young Fern Simon, who has declared her love for him. When a dam is exploded by dynamite and as a result the flood waters recede, it is Dr. Safti who reveals that Ransome is the one who risked his personal safety to save the people of Ranchipur. Edwina tries to explain to the Maharani that her love for Safti has become true, so much so that she will make the sacrifice of leaving him for his own good. She drives away from Ranchipur with her husband.Twenty-year-old Joseph  and his sixteen-year-old sister Suzanne  live in the merciless conditions of a hot foreign land with their widowed mother. Their mother attempts to exert a hold on her children by involving them in the family's run-down rice plantation. However the siblings seek liberation, and look for this in their romantic lives. Suzanne becomes involved with Michael  and Joseph finds a love interest in Claude .With her marriage to womaniser Carlo Landi  in ashes, wealthy and childless Margaret Landi  finds an emotional outlet in patronising a 15-year-old deaf, dumb, and blind Irish girl named Esther Costello . Esther's disabilities are the result of a childhood trauma and are psychosomatic rather than physical. As Costello makes progress with Braille and sign language, she is seen as an example of triumph over adversity. Carlo gets wind of Margaret's new life and re-enters the scene. He views Esther as a source of cheap financial gain and arranges a series of exploitative tours for her under a mercenary manager . One day when Margaret is absent from the Landi apartment, Carlo seduces and rapes the now 16-year-old Esther. The shock restores the girl's sight and hearing. When Margaret learns of her husband's business duplicities and the rape, she consigns Esther to the care of a priest and a young reporter who loves her , then kills Carlo and herself.An American reporter, Sara Scott  is working in Europe during World War II and begins an affair with a British reporter named Mark Trevor . Sara is conflicted on whether to marry her rich boss or the charming young reporter she is having an affair with. Finally, she chooses Mark, only to find that he is married and has a son. The two separate shortly thereafter, then decide to stay together and work out their problems. After the war ends, Mark Trevor is killed in an accident, sending Sara into mourning. Her boss, after a few months, convinces her to come back to the United States and work for him. Before she goes, she visits her old lover, Mark's hometown and ends up living with her ex-lover's wife and child.The story is set in a kingdom. The chief minister wants his daughter to marry the King's only son, the future prince. The King refused the idea, and the angry minister captures and arrests the King and runs the Kingdom. A loyal countryman Veeranna  takes the Prince and leaves him in the forest away from the evil minister's hands, but gets captured himself. The Prince, grows up as the forest chief's adopted son Kannayya . Veeranna's daughter is Nana . Both of them grows up as thieves. The old King escapes finally and stays at Nana's house. Nana steals the Princess Lalita Devi's  necklace and Kannayya returns it to her. The princess falls in love with him. Nana also falls for the Kannayya too. He gets to know his true identity, defeats his enemies and gets back his Kingdom.A comedy of manners, the film centers on virtuous actress Patty O'Neill, who meets playboy architect Donald Gresham on the top of the Empire State Building and accepts his invitation to join him for drinks and dinner in his apartment. There she meets Donald's upstairs neighbors, his ex-fiancée Cynthia and her father, roguish David Slater. Both men are determined to bed the young woman, but they quickly discover Patty is more interested in engaging in spirited discussions about the pressing moral and sexual issues of the day than surrendering her virginity to either one of them. After resisting their amorous advances throughout the night, Patty leaves and returns to the Empire State Building, where Donald finds her and proposes marriage.In 1465, honorable but penniless Scottish knight Quentin Durward  agrees to go to France to find out if the beautiful young heiress, Isabelle, Countess of Marcroy , would be a suitable wife for his aged uncle . The marriage has been arranged by Charles, Duke of Burgundy  for his ward to cement an alliance with Scotland, but she wants nothing to do with it, so she runs away and seeks the protection of Charles' great rival, Louis XI , the King of France. Quentin pursues and manages to foil an attempted robbery by brigands under the command of Count William de La Marck , though Isabelle continues on her way unaware of her protector's identity. Nearing the court of King Louis, Quentin tries, but fails, to save the life of a gypsy. However, the dead man's brother, Hayraddin ([[George Cole , is grateful for his efforts. Louis, who had ordered the man's hanging as a Burgundian spy, and distrusts such honest men as Quentin, orders him to leave France. However, the Scotsman is not easily deterred. He sneaks into the heavily guarded castle and awakens the king in his bed with a dagger at his throat. Louis is impressed and enlists Quentin in his service. Upon the unexpected arrival of Count Phillip de Creville , a Burgundian ambassador seeking Isabelle, Louis orders Quentin to guard her and to keep her presence secret. During the time they spend together, she and Quentin begin to fall in love. Having lied about Isabelle being there, Louis commands her to depart. She tells him that she will seek sanctuary with an old friend, the Bishop of Liege . Louis concocts a plan to have De la Marck kidnap and forcibly marry Isabelle to keep her strategically important lands out of Burgundian hands. He has Hayraddin, who is a spy in his employ, take the information and a large bribe to De la Marck. Louis provides Isabelle with a detailed itinerary . He also lends her a few guards, including Quentin, so that when they are killed, it will divert any suspicion away from him. Hayraddin is also sent as a guide. However, when he discovers that Quentin is to be one of the victims, he switches sides and warns the Scotsman. The three manage to escape the trap and reach Liège, though Quentin is wounded. When he has recovered, he finally tells Isabelle of his obligation to his uncle, which prevents him from courting her himself, and leaves. De la Marck attacks the castle, captures Isabelle, and kills the bishop when he refuses to marry them. Hearing the sounds of battle, Quentin rescues his love. He slays De la Marck in an unusual duel involving swinging from ropes normally used to ring the church bells. Meanwhile, the Duke of Burgundy arrests Louis when he comes to continue peace negotiations, accusing him of orchestrating the murder of the bishop. However, Quentin arrives and exonerates the king, providing as proof De la Marck's severed head. Out of gratitude , Louis tricks Charles into letting Isabelle decide who she will marry. Quentin has received news that his uncle has died, so he is free to follow his heart.The film opens in Mexico, in the home of an upper-class antiques salesman named Don Carlos Montero and his wife Rosario, whose son, Carlos or Carlitos, is accused of stealing by the principal of his school. Carlitos is scolded harshly by his father when he comes home, and is locked in his room. Carlitos runs away, but is found by an engineer named Julio Mistral who works in the forest. Julio returns the boy to his parents, and Don Carlos is very grateful. Julio becomes great friends with the Montero family, but in private asks Rosario why she really married such a harsh mannered and older man. One day, Rosario and Carlitos pay a visit to Julio in the forest, while Don Carlos spends the day in town on business. Carlitos enjoys himself immensely, fishing for trout. Rosario and Julio converse privately, and Julio notes how unhappy she is. Rosario reveals that she is unhappy because she married Don Carlos for his money when she was very young. Julio sympathizes her plight as a woman who has never truly loved, and they fall in love with each other. Rosario and Julio begin an affair, and Julio tries to convince her to run away with him to Brazil. She eventually agrees, but decides to wait, after Don Carlos suffers a severe heart attack. Don Carlos ultimately lives, and Rosario refuses to go with Julio, unable to separate Carlitos from his father, who had grown close since his illness. The film skips about 20 years into the future, where Carlos, and his younger brother, Miguel , have graduated from medical school. One day, news arrives that Julio Mistral has died and decided to will all of his money to Miguel. Initially, everybody is perplexed at this action, as Julio had never met Miguel.  Though it is not explicitly stated in the film, Carlos soon pieces together that Miguel was willed this money because he is the illegitimate child of Julio and his mother, Rosario. Carlos refuses Miguel's offer to share his inheritance, which he uses to build a new clinic, and begins acting bitter towards his mother and brother. Miguel becomes engaged to be married to a woman who Carlos is convinced wants to marry him for his money. At his wedding, Don Carlos collapses and dies from a heart attack. The film comes to a conclusion as Carlos finally discloses the truth about the inheritance to Miguel, who becomes very angry and fights Carlos. Rosario breaks up the fight, and confirms what Carlos has said. Miguel is distraught, and Rosario unapologetically tells them that Julio was the only man she ever loved. The brothers reconcile their differences at the sight of their emotional mother, wrought with sadness. Carlos leaves for the tropics to do research, and the film ends with Rosario placing a picture of Julio on her mantelpiece.A wealthy classical pianist, Ellen, is accused of already being married when she attempts to take her wedding vows; the wedding guests are shocked. They temporarily call off the wedding and the couple tries to investigate why someone would accuse her of already being married. With the help of a lawyer and the district attorney, the couple tracks down and questions the justice of the peace that signed her wedding papers. Even he recognizes her as the woman he married. Frustrated, the couple next visits the man to whom Ellen is accused of being married. In a back room a gunshot fires and Ellen is accused of killing the man. She breaks down after a lengthy trial, is eventually found not guilty due to insanity, and is sent to a mental institution. Meanwhile her fiance David, still believing her innocence, begins to find clues that may help free her.Ichiro Aoye , an artist, meets a famous young classical singer, Miyako Saijo  whilst working on his paintings in the mountains. After discovering they are both heading for the same location he offers to give her a motorcycle ride to where they are staying. On the way, they are spotted by paparazzi for the tabloid magazine Amour, who track the two down. As Saijo refuses to grant the photographers an interview, they plot their revenge by taking a picture of the couple having breakfast on a balcony and print it under the headline 'The Love Story of Miyako Saijo'. Aoye is outraged by this false scandal and plans to sue the magazine. During the subsequent media circus, Aoye is approached by a down-and-out lawyer, Hiruta , who claims to share Aoye's anger with the press. Aoye takes him for his attorney, but Hiruta, desperate for money to cure his daughter with terminal tuberculosis, Masako , accepts a bribe from the editor of the magazine to throw the trial. The trial proceeds badly for the plaintiffs. Struck by the kindness of Aoye and Saijo towards his Masako, and Masako's own disgust at the way he is handling the case, Hiruta becomes ridden with guilt. As the trial draws to an end, Masako dies, convinced that Aoye and Saijo will win the case. On the final day of the trial Hiruta, prodded by his conscience, confesses all and though he is disbarred, his reputation is saved and Amour loses the case.In the first overtly anti-McCarthyism film to be produced in Hollywood, Alicia Hull is a widowed small town librarian dedicated to introducing children to the joy of reading. In exchange for fulfilling her request for a children's wing, the city council asks her to withdraw the book The Communist Dream from the library's collection. When she refuses to comply with their demand, she is fired and branded as a subversive. Judge Ellerbe feels she has been treated unfairly and calls a town meeting. Ambitious attorney and aspiring politician Paul Duncan, who is dating assistant librarian Martha Lockeridge, uses the meeting as an opportunity to make a name for himself by denouncing Alicia as a Communist. His forceful rhetoric turns the entire town, with the exception of young Freddie Slater, against her. The boy, increasingly upset by the mistreatment his mentor is suffering and affected by the influence of his narrow-minded father, finally turns on her himself and sets the library on fire. His action causes the residents to have a change of heart, and they ask Alicia to return and supervise the construction of a new building.A large part of the story unfolds in Calcutta. Apu Roy  is an unemployed graduate living in a rented room in Calcutta. Despite his teacher's advice to go to university, he is unable to do so because he can't afford it. He tries to find a job, while barely getting by providing private tuition. His main passion is writing a novel, partially based on his own life, hoping to get it published some day. One day he meets his old friend Pulu, who coaxes him to join him on a trip to his village in Khulna to attend the marriage of a cousin named Aparna . On the day of the marriage it turns out that the bridegroom has a serious mental disorder. The bride's mother cancels the marriage, despite the father's protests. He and the other villagers believe, according to prevalent Hindu tradition, that the young bride must be wedded off during the previously appointed auspicious hour, otherwise, she will have to remain unmarried all her life. Apu, after initially refusing when requested by a few villagers, ultimately decides to take Pulu's advice and come to the rescue of the bride by agreeing to marry her. He returns with Aparna to his apartment in Calcutta after the wedding. He takes up a clerical job, and a loving relationship begins to bloom between them. Yet the young couple's blissful days are cut short when Aparna dies while giving birth to their son, Kajal. Apu is overcome with grief and holds the child responsible for his wife's death. He shuns his worldly responsibilities and becomes a recluse – travelling to different corners of India, while the child is left with his maternal grandparents. Meanwhile, Apu throws away his manuscript for the novel he had been writing over the years. A few years later, Pulu finds Kajal growing wild and uncared for. He then seeks out Apu, who is working at a mining quarry and advises Apu one last time to take up his fatherly responsibility. At last, Apu decides to come back to reality and reunite with his son. When he reaches his in-laws' place, Kajal, having seen him for the first time in his life, at first does not accept him as a father. Eventually he accepts Apu as a friend and they return to Calcutta together to start life afresh.The movie is set in London in 1914, on the eve of World War I. 1914 was the year Chaplin made his first movie. Calvero , once a famous stage clown but now a washed-up drunk, saves a young dancer, Thereza Ambrose, alias Terry , from suicide. Nursing her back to health, Calvero helps Terry regain her self-esteem and resume her dancing career. In doing so he regains his own self-confidence, but his attempts to make a comeback are less successful. Terry says she wants to marry Calvero despite their age difference, although she has befriended Neville, a young composer Calvero believes would be better suited to her. In order to give them a chance Calvero leaves home and becomes a street entertainer. Terry, now starring in her own show, eventually finds Calvero and persuades him to return to the stage for a benefit concert. Reunited with an old partner , Calvero gives a triumphant comeback performance but immediately suffers a heart attack and dies in the wings while just a few feet away Terry, the second act on the bill, dances on stage. This represents the end of a generation and the coming of another. The fading of age and the emergence of youth... under the Limelight, as said during the initial credits.Suave Don Juan Rick De Villa  and his married lover Fritzi Darvel would like to take off together, but his lack of money prevents them from doing so. A chance encounter introduces Rick to the young, but terminally ill socialite Valerie Bancroft , in whom Rick sees the solution to his predicament. Rick sweeps her off her feet and they soon marry, although Valerie's entourage are suspicious of him. Rick then proceeds to try and bring about Valerie's demise so he can inherit her wealth and live the good life with Fritzi.Andrew Crocker-Harris is an aging Classics master at an English public school, and is forced into retirement by his increasing ill health. The film, in common with the original stage play, follows the schoolmaster's final few days in his post, as he comes to terms with his sense of failure as a teacher, a sense of weakness exacerbated by his wife's infidelity and the realization that he is despised by both pupils and staff of the school. The emotional turning-point for the cold Crocker-Harris is his pupil Taplow's unexpected parting gift, Robert Browning's translation of the Agamemnon, which he has inscribed with the Greek phrase that translates as "God from afar looks graciously upon a gentle master."  Rattigan wrote the screenplay from his own one-act play. The chief difference is in the film's extended ending. The play ends before Crocker-Harris's farewell speech to the school; the film shows the speech, in which he discards his notes and admits his failings, to be received with warm applause and cheers by the boys. The film ends on a final conversation between Crocker-Harris and Taplow.The story is based on the life of three brothers &mdash; Chandrasekaran , Gnanasekaran  and Gunasekaran  &mdash; who settle down in Burma during the Second World War. The youngest, Gunasekaran, gets the opportunity to visit India for the marriage of their younger sister Kalyani  but, as fate would have it, he gets stranded at sea due to intense Japanese bombardment of Burmese ports.  As the Japanese shelling of Burma intensifies, Chandrasekaran and Gnanasekaran pack their belongings and cross over to India. But Gnanasekaran is lost and is presumed killed in the bombardment. Meanwhile, Kalyani delivers a boy after her marriage. Soon after the birth of the child, her husband and her father die, leaving her destitute. Gunasekaran manages to reach India but is robbed of his belongings. He begins to beg people to give him food and shelter, but they refuse. Because of their aggressive nature, he understands that being a good and innocent person cannot fetch him his wants and needs. So he turns into a robber and causes all sorts of havoc around the town to live better. Later, Gnanasekaran is revealed to be alive, although he loses a leg and walks on crutches, having no clue where his family is. Gunasakeran manages to find out where Kalyani lives and meets her many times; he hides the fact that he is her brother. He meanwhile falls for Vimala . Kalyani becomes the target of anti-social elements. A number of people, including a rich man and a temple priest, make sexual advances at her. In the meantime, she tosses her baby boy into the river because of no way to feed him or make him live properly, thus leading her to face the high court. Gunasekaran attacks the temple priest who tortured Kalyani for his misdemeanor and lands up in the same court as Kalyani. Gunasekaran fights an epic battle in the court explaining the misfortunes which had befallen him and justifying his actions. Eventually, the baby tossed by Kalyani is revealed to be alive as it was caught by Vimala before it touched the water. But the judge at the court  realizes that he was dealing with his own sister whom he was unable to recognize and falls into a coma out of sadness. Through a sequence of events, Gunasekaran, Gnanasekaran and Kalyani finally find their elder brother Chandrasekaran and reunite with him, thus returning to their rich life. Vimala also joins them and decides to get married to Gunasekaran. The film ends with C.N. Annadurai, M. Karunanidhi and several other famous people attending a stage drama conducted by Gnanasekaran.The film is about an ambitious Queen makes an unsuccessful attempt to rule her country by eliminating the King and Prince with the help of her Army Commander. General Vikranthan rescues the young prince and plans to retake the throne from the usurper and place the rightful heir on it.David Niven plays a globe-trotting author and photographer on assignment from LIFE magazine to do a photo story on best-selling author of the title book, "The Lady Says 'No'," Joan Caulfield. Rather than finding a dour spinster, as he expects, she is a young, attractive blonde, who finds her published theories against love and men set on their head. The unbidden thoughts and impulses even invade her subconscious, in a fascinating dream sequence. It is a battle of the sexes, and the Id and Ego, as the two clash. He tries to show her that her book is "all rot"; while she tries to prove her theories that love is just an autonomic function, which isn't really worth it. They find that they all have a lot to learn, and forgive. It looks like sometimes the answer is "no", and sometimes "yes". Mayhem follows, when her errant Uncle returns, and they get pulled into the lives of the colorful local characters. It all ends in a barroom brawl, with the police, army, and General trying to restore order.  The New York Times critic agreed with David Niven's "trenchant observation [in the film], 'This went out with silent pictures!' Yes, indeed."http://movies.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=9801E4DA1F3BE23BBC4F53DFB7668389649EDE But, it's still fun. Among supporting roles are James Robertson Justice as her errant Irish uncle, Henry Jones as a charming army sergeant, and Lenore Lonergan as his wife, caught up in all the confusion.Captain Scarlett rescues Princess Maria from being abducted while travelling. She's not exactly grateful. He finds out that she is to be married to a man she doesn't like, so Captain Scarlet attempts to help her but winds up in prison for his efforts. He escapes and finally helps the reluctant bride who winds up joining Captain Scarlett and his sidekick and they become something along the lines of the three musketeers.C.I.D. Sudhakaran is assigned to investigate the murder of Mukunda Menon, a wealthy planter. He discovers who is behind the murder and in the end marries Menon's daughter Vasanthi.{{Expand section}} A young woman is playing the piano at a wild party. When asked to play a special tune, she begins but stops abruptly and rushes out, visibly upset. Alone she starts to walk home through late night central Stockholm. Crossing a bridge, she has a conversation with a drunk artist, and after his persuasion, out of kindness, she buys a sketch that he offers. Arriving at her apartment, she straps a rope to the ceiling and hangs herself. The next morning her body is found by a housekeeper. The police arrives and ask questions to her neighbours. The young woman's name was Dagmar Brink, and she was something of a loner. Nobody knew much about her, although she had lived for a while in the house, but everyone states that she seemed like a sweet and nice girl. Her closest neighbours in the flat next door, writer Anders Wikner and his wife Britt, are both shocked by the girl's suicide. Soon Anders starts to investigate what happened. He contacts the few people who knew her and asks them questions. He meets artist Elias Körner who painted a portrait of her, an old bank manager who had a cold meeting with her, a woman who shared a room with her once, an ex-husband, and the singer whose party she attended the night of the suicide. Anders' wife also turns out to have a story about Dagmar and what happened one night in Dagmar's apartment. The different people's meetings with Dagmar are told in several flashbacks.As the world of vaudeville gradually loses its attraction, more and more entertainers are losing their jobs. In hopes of fixing their financial problems, a group of entertainers band together and buy a run-down theater to attract customers by showcasing their various talents on the grand opening night. Along the way their show is threatened by a gang of crooks but the show finishes successfully with each entertainer given a happy ending.Koondukkili deals with the issues of poverty, greed, abuse of women and the poor. MGR is married to B. S. Saroja and they have a son. MGR and Sivaji Ganesan are friends. MGR goes to jail for a mistake committed by Sivaji. B. S. Saroja is left with no money or house to live. Sivaji tries to help her but he has his sinister motive, to have a relationship with B. S. Saroja. After she repeatedly refuses his attempts to help her, Sivaji starts to sadisticially taunt her. Meanwhile, Kusalakumari is in love with Sivaji. MGR gets released and saves his wife from Sivaji.Charlie Castle, a very successful Hollywood actor, lives in a huge home. But his wife Marion is on the verge of leaving him, which he refuses to confirm to influential gossip columnist Patty Benedict. On his wife's advice, Castle is adamantly refusing to renew his contract, which enrages Stanley Shriner Hoff, his powerful studio boss. Castle wants to be free from the studio's grip on his life and career. Hoff and his right-hand man Smiley Coy have knowledge of a hit-and-run accident in which Castle was involved and threaten to use this information against him. Hoff is willing to do anything to make the actor sign a seven-year renewal. Castle's soul is tortured. He wants to win back his idealistic wife, who has been proposed to by Hank Teagle, a writer. And he longs to do more inspiring work than the schlock films Hoff makes him do, pleading with his needy agent Nat to help him be free. But the studio chief's blackmail works and Charlie signs the new contract. Feeling sorry for himself, the darker side of his nature causes Castle to have a fling with Connie, the flirtatious wife of his friend Buddy Bliss, who had taken the blame for Charlie's car accident. When a struggling starlet named Dixie Evans threatens to reveal what she knows about the crash, Hoff and Smiley decide to have her silenced permanently. They try to involve Castle in their sinister plot and even extort Charlie's wife, secretly recording her conversations with the new man in her life. That is the last straw for Castle, who finally defies the ruthless men who employ him. However, having betrayed a friend, lost the woman he loves and sacrificed his integrity, Charlie can no longer live with himself. He has a hot bath drawn, gets into it and ends his own life.When 17-year-old Jane Broadbent comes to London to live with her wealthy father Jimmy Broadbent, her stepmother Sheila feels compelled by her social aspirations to introduce her to society. Jane is bored by the debutante balls she attends and the young men she is introduced to, but becomes interested in a drummer named David Parkson, who has a reputation for leading young women astray. To complicate matters, David Fenner relentlessly pursues Jane, even though she openly detests him. As it turns out, Parkson's reputation is undeserved, but Sheila is convinced otherwise, and she tries to keep him away from Jane. Sheila's garrulous friend Mabel interferes with Sheila's attempts to separate the two in order to secure David Fenner for her own daughter, Clarissa. Fortunately for Jane and David, Sheila's plans fail miserably. The two young people fall in love with each other, and David Parkson proposes to Jane. He also inherits an Italian title of nobility, satisfying Sheila's concerns for Jane's social status.Giuseppe , an ex-convict meets with a village priest Don Peppino  with a letter requesting that he is given a job but the man happens to be so ill that he cannot help him. Over time, starving and in a desperate state, Giuseppe steals a hundred lira from the church and flees in the robes of the cleric. Outside he is confronted by police officer who, in mistaking him for the village priest requests that he comes to the aid of a local rich landlord whose farmers are on strike and threaten to take over the land. If he is able to settle the conflict then as an award the church will be granted a large sum of money to revamp the old church. Imposing as the priest Don Peppino, Giuseppe decides to see if he can squander the money by fulfilling the task.Cantinflas is a down on his luck but affable shoe shiner that learns that his compadre dies in an accident. His spouse, Leonor  is unable to raise her child, Chavita, so she leaves the kid with Cantinflas so she can go to Guadalajara, Jalisco in order to seek help from her parents. In the first days, Cantinflas goes to work to Chapultepec and Chavita finds a big ball and almost fight with the owners of the ball. Cantinflas calms down the child promising he will bring him a new ball. In order to find a better job, Cantinflas goes to school where he tries to learn but, instead fails in love with Raquel Saavedra, an attractive teacher that works there. While he tries more jobs. First, as a shoe shiner in a night club where he got in different incidents in his first night, including an unexpected entrance to the dancers room and an accidental entrance to Ravel's Boléro dance act performed by Elaine Bruce , the scene is reminiscent of his Apache dance in the 1944 film, Gran Hotel. After sabotaging the act, Cantinflas is prompted to leave the night club. Cantinflas tries to get new jobs in Acapulco where he tries everything to get some money, when accidentally Chavita leaves Cantinflas to climb La Quebrada, Cantinflas tries to rescue him, but he is stuck himself at the top of La Quebrada  and he is obliged to make a spectacular dive. His action leads him to get a job as a life saver but his incompetence to save a big woman to drown  made him to be fired in the same day. Finally, Cantinflas got enough money to raise his godson and buys him a new big ball, but Leonor came back from Guadalajara, with a husband, a better life and a new brand ball. Chavita leaves Cantinflas and he sadly sees the scene. Angrily he kicks the ball and the ball goes to Raquel's feet. Finally they got together. El bolero de Raquel satirizes the lifestyles of the rich with their bodyguards, managers etc. through scenes set in posh nightclubs. Though a relative box-office disappointment for a Cantinflas film, it still ranked among the most profitable Mexican films of the year.{{cite book}}A Greek artisan is commissioned to cast the cup of Christ in silver and sculpt around its rim the faces of the disciples and Jesus himself. He travels to Jerusalem and eventually to Rome to complete the task. Meanwhile, a nefarious interloper is trying to convince the crowds that he is the new Messiah by using nothing more than cheap parlor tricks.The Lemon Drop Kid , a New York City swindler, is illegally touting horses at a Florida racetrack. After several successful hustles, the Kid comes across a beautiful, but gullible, woman intending to bet a lot of money. The Kid convinces her to switch her bet, employing a prefabricated con. Unfortunately for the Kid, the woman "belongs" to notorious gangster Moose Moran , as does the money. The Kid's choice finishes dead last and a furious Moran demands the Kid provide him with $10,000  by Christmas Eve, or the Kid "won't make it to New Year's." The Kid decides to return to New York to try to come up with the money. He first tries his on-again, off-again girlfriend Brainy Baxter . However, when talk of long-term commitment arises, the Kid quickly makes an escape. He next visits local crime boss "Oxford" Charley , with whom he has had past dealings. This falls through as Charley is in serious tax trouble and does not particularly care for the Kid anyway. As he leaves Charley's establishment and is about to give up hope, the Kid notices a cornerside Santa Claus and his kettle. Thinking quickly, the Kid fashions himself a Santa suit and begins collecting donations. This fails as he is recognized by a passing policeman, who remembers his previous underhanded activity well. The Kid lands in court, where he is convicted of collecting for a charity without a license and sentenced to ten days in jail . However, while in court, the Kid learns where his scheme went wrong. After a short stay, Brainy arrives to bail him out. He then sets about restarting his Santa operation, this time with legitimate backing. To this end, he needs a charity to represent and a city license. The kid receives key inspiration when he remembers that Nellie Thursday , a kindly neighborhood resident, has been denied entry to a retirement home because of her jailed husband's criminal past as a safecracker. Organizing other small-time New York swindlers and Brainy, who is both surprised and charmed at the Kid's apparent goodwill, the Kid converts an abandoned casino  into the "Nellie Thursday Home For Old Dolls". A small group of elderly women and makeshift amenities complete the project. The Kid is able to receive the all-important city license. Now free to collect, the Kid and his compatriots dress as Santa Claus and position themselves throughout Manhattan. The others are unaware that the Kid plans to keep the money for himself to pay off Moran. The scheme is a huge success, netting $2,000 in only a few days. An overjoyed Brainy decides to leave her job as a dancer and look after the "home" full-time until after Christmas. Coincidentally, her employer is none other than "Oxford" Charley, whom Brainy cheerfully informs of the effort. Seeing a potential gold mine, Charley decides to muscle in on the operation. Reasoning that the Nellie Thursday home is "wherever Nellie Thursday is", Charley and his crew kidnap the home's inhabitants  and move them to Charley's mansion in Nyack. The Kid learns of this when he returns to the home after a late night to find the home deserted and money  gone. Clued in by oversized Oxford footprints in the snow, the Kid and his friends pay Charley a visit. Here, Charley reveals the true nature of the Kid's scheme through a phone conversation with Moose Moran. The Kid's accomplices are angry and move to confront him, but the Kid manages to slip away. However, Brainy tracks him down outside and voices her disgust at his actions. After a few days of stewing in self-pity , the Kid is surprised to meet Nellie, who has escaped Charley's compound. He decides to recover the money, sneaking into Charley's home in the guise of an elderly woman. He finds that Charley and his crew are again moving the women, this time to a more secure location. Using the heightened activity to his advantage, the Kid enters Charley's office and confronts him. After a brief struggle, the Kid overpowers Charley and makes off with the money, narrowly avoiding the thugs Charley has sent after him. The ensuing chaos allows Brainy and the others to escape. Later that night, the Kid returns to the original Nellie Thursday home to meet with Moose Moran . The deal appears to be in jeopardy as Moran arrives with Charley. Charley demands that the Kid reimburse him, which would leave too little for Moran. However, the Kid turns the tables by hitting a switch, revealing hidden casino tables. All are occupied, mainly by the escaped old dolls. The Kid and his still-loyal friends hold off the gangsters as the police initiate a raid. Moran and Charley are arrested while the judge who sentenced the Kid earlier warns that he will be "keeping an eye on him". The Kid assures him that will not be necessary and his attention will lie on the home, which is going to become a reality. The night's main event begins as Nellie's husband Henry, free on parole, joyously reunites with his wife.The films starts with Astrophysicist Ryoichi Shiraishi, his fiancee Hiroko, his sister Etsuko, and his friend Joji Atsumi witnessing a festival at a local village near Fuji. Shiraishi then tells Atsumi that he has broken off his engagement with Hiroko but gives no reason other than undisclosed obligation to remain in the village. A mysterious forest fire is then seen near them. Shiraishi rushes out to investigate and disappears during the confusion. The next day, Atsumi is at the local observatory, where he meets the head astronomer, Tanjiro Adachi. He hands the doctor a report written by Shiraishi. The report concerns a newly-discovered asteroid that Shiraishi theorized was once a planet between Mars and Jupiter. He has named it Mysteroid. However, Adachi does not believe in his radical theory and also points out that the report is not complete. Meanwhile, the village in which Shiraishi was staying is completely wiped out by a massive earthquake. While investigating the area, Atsumi and a group of police officers stumble upon a giant robot, Mogera. The robot then advances on a town near Koyama Bridge that night, and is meant by heavy resistance from Japan's self defense force. However, the conventional artillery has no effect on the war machine, and the creature continues its rampage until it tries to cross the Koyama Bridge, which is detonated sending the machine crashing down to the ground below destroying it. At the Diet Building, Atsumi briefs officials on what has been learned about the robot. The remains of the giant machine reveal that it was manufactured out of an unknown chemical compound. Shortly afterwards, astronomers witness activity in outer space around the moon. They alert the world of this discovery, and not long after the aliens emerge, their gigantic dome breaking through the Earth's crust near Mount Fuji. A group of scientists are politely ushered into the dome, where the Mysterians, a scientifically advanced alien race, list their wants from the people of Earth: a two mile radius strip of land and the right to marry women on Earth. The reason for this is that 100,000 years ago their planet Mysteriod, the once fifth planet from the sun, was destroyed by a nuclear war. Fortunately, some Mysterians were able to escape to Mars before their planet was rendered uninhabitable. However, due to the nuclear war, Stronium-90 has left 80 percent of the aliens population deformed and crippled. The proposed interbreeding with women on Earth would produce healthier offspring and keep their race alive. The latter part of their demands is downplayed as they admit to already taking three women captive and reveal two others that they are interested in, one of which is Etsuko. Japan quickly disregards this request and begins the mobilization of its armed forces around Mount Fuji. It's also discovered that the missing Shiraishi has sided with the advance race due to their technological achievements. Japan wastes no time, though, and quickly launches a full scale attack against the Mysterians' dome. However, the modern weaponry is no match for their technology, and Japan's forces are easily fought back. Distraught by this set back, Japan sends their plea to other nations that they might join together to remove the threat of the Mysterians from Earth. The nations around the world answer the plea, and in no time issue another raid against the Mysterians' dome, this time utilizing the newly developed Alpha and Beta class airships. Sadly, the attack is meant with failure as well. The Mysterians then increase their demand, asking for 75 mile radius of land, as the Earth continues to develop a new method of attack. Earth's efforts in this matter pay off as the Markalite FAHP , a gigantic lens that can reflect the Mysterians’ weaponry, is designed. Meanwhile, the Mysterians kidnap Etsuko and Hiroko, causing Atsumi to search for, and locate, a back entrance to the Mysterians' dome. In the mean time, the Markalite FAHP's are deployed by large Markalite GYRO rockets and the final battle against the Mysterians' base of operations commences. As Atsumi, later joined by Shirashi who sacrifices himself in a final attack on the Mysterians after learning of their true ambitions, attacks the base from the inside, the Markalite FAHP's assault the base from above ground. Together, the structure is finally destroyed, the kidnapped women are rescued, and the Mysterians expelled from Earth forever.The story sees brother and sister Tom and Ellen Bowen as stars of a show Every Night at Seven, a Broadway success. They are persuaded to take the show to London, capitalising on the imminent Royal Wedding. On the ship, Ellen meets and quickly falls in love  with impoverished but socially well connected aristocrat Lord John Brindale. Whilst casting the show in London, Tom falls in love with a newly engaged dancer, Anne Ashmond. Tom assists Anne to reconcile her estranged parents and also asks his agent to locate Anne's supposed fiancee in Chicago – only to discover that he's married. Carried away by the emotion of the wedding, the two couples decide that they will also be married that day.Kotayya  is an honest poor farmer, has a son Venu  and daughter Bharathi . Sagarayya  is the landlord in the village who gives loans for high interest and when the farmers fail to pay the grabs their lands. With the help Karanam Sambayya  and Rowdy Polayya  Sagarayya grabs the lands in the false names. Retired military man Ratnam  and his daughter Radha  also lives in the same village. After initially misunderstanding with Venu, Radha fall in love with him and marries him. Venu tells all about Sagarayya in front of the collector and distributes the land to the real owners. How Sagarayya creates differences between Kotayya and Venu, and how Venu solves his problems and arrange his sister's marriage with Gopalam  and sends Sagarayya and his men to jail is the rest of the story.A lonely young man, Mario, meets a lonely young woman, Natalia. Mario  is lonely for social reasons; he is a stranger and a newcomer to town. Natalia  is lonely because she has always lived in isolation, even in the heart of the city. Her loneliness is intensified because she is in love with a man  who may not ever return to her, but who continues to occupy her heart to the exclusion of any other possible relationship. In turning the Dostoevsky story into a film, Visconti eliminated the first-person narration and made Natalia less of an innocent, and at times something of a hysteric and a tease. For his part, Mario rejects obvious offers of romantic attention from other women in the story, holding on to a fruitless obsession. Mario thanks the young woman for the moment of happiness she has brought him. However, he is left alone at the end of the film, befriending the same stray dog he met at the beginning. He is back at square one, and has put more energy into pursuing the fantasy of an obsession rather than any prospect of real love.The film revolves around Davey Gordon , a 29-year-old welterweight New York boxer in the end of his career, and his relationship with his neighbor, taxi dancer Gloria Price , and her violent employer Vincent Rapallo . The drama begins with Davey in his apartment room, mentally preparing for a big fight against Kid Rodriguez. On the other side of the building, across the courtyard, he gazes upon Gloria, an attractive taxi dancer, getting ready for work. As they both walk out of the building, they run into each other, they notice each other but say nothing. Gloria is picked up by her boss Vincent. As Davey is losing his fight, Gloria is dealing with her boss in his office as he tries to kiss her repeatedly. That evening Davey is awakened by screams coming from Gloria's apartment. As he looks across the courtyard, he sees that Gloria is being attacked by Vincent. He runs to her room, but Vincent has made his getaway. Davey comforts Gloria and she goes to sleep comfortable that Davey is in the room to protect her. However, Vincent is not deterred, and proceeds to interfere in their lives. When they decide to leave town, Davey and Gloria arrange to get money they are each owed. Gloria tries to get money from Vincent at the dance hall, and Davey asks his manager to meet him there as well. When a street performer steals Davey's scarf, he chases after him. Davey's manager arrives but does not see Davey. Vincent sends two goons out to rough Davey up, but they mistake the manager for Davey and kill him in the alley. Vincent kidnaps Gloria and has his two goons hold her hostage. Davey returns to Gloria's apartment and sees the police across the courtyard in his apartment. They assume he killed his manager. Davey leaves to rescue Gloria, but he is captured and restrained as well, leading to a chase and confrontation in an abandoned warehouse full of mannequins. During the struggle, Davey kills Vincent and rescues Gloria. He and Gloria are cleared of all charges by the police, and Davey buys a train ticket back to the West Coast. At the train station, Davey assumes she will not join him, but at the last minute, Gloria rushes in, and they kiss.Anne Leeds is a school teacher with only four weeks of experience. She takes a part-time job as a secretary to an ex-bootlegger and horse playing gambler by the name of Rocco. He's a Broadway nightclub owner with a heart of gold who eventually falls in love with Anne. However, he knows he's too old for her, so keeps his feelings to himself. Eventually, Anne finds that she "thinks" she's in love with his younger partner Tony Armotti, a typical playboy type who is afraid to fall in love because it might mean marriage. Tony lives in a walkup apartment above the nightclub, where he often entertains beautiful women. The stairs to the apartment are on the alley behind the club. The entire nightclub loves Anne but Tony resents her because he wants to take care of her and protect her. Eventually after confronting Tony, Anne quits because Tony tells her he does not love her and never will. After she quits the entire nightclub patronizes Tony over whether Anne quit or was fired; So he goes to where she is currently working and after helping her escape when police raid the gambling den, convinces her to take back the job she quit from. The movie ends with Ivy singing This Could Be the Night.Pat Quaid, an alcoholic San Francisco widower, ends up in jail. His grocery-clerk son, Eddie, needs $25 to bail him out. When he can't borrow it, Eddie enters an amateur fight contest and wins it. Julie Walsh is in love with Eddie, but her father disapproves of the Quaid family, particularly the boy's father, so he makes Julie stay away. Pat Quaid, once a promising prizefighter, urges his son to give it a try professionally. Eddie agrees on the condition that Pat quit drinking. Eddie decides to adopt his dad's old ring name, Packy Glennon. To train him, the Quaids go to Bernie Browne, who also has had a problem with booze. Bernie's work with Eddie eventually leads to a fight with Al Gorski for the middleweight championship. Julie shows up, but Eddie angrily dismisses her. Pat explains that Julie's dad has recently committed suicide. Eddie chases after her. Eddie wins the fight and becomes increasingly arrogant. He trains lazily for the rematch with Gorski and is beaten badly. A referee's decision to stop the fight might have saved Eddie from permanent damage or death, but instead of being grateful, Eddie complains publicly that Tommy Dillon stopped it too soon and should be banned as a referee. In a third and final bout, Eddie beats Gorski mercilessly. Dillon, the ref, doesn't stop it this time. The crowd jeers Eddie when he leaves the ring as Gorski lies unconscious. A depressed Eddie goes on an alcoholic bender with another woman at a motel. He feels "dead inside," but when Julie is able to get him back to a boxing arena, Eddie finds that Gorski and the spectators all have forgiven him.Larry and Shemp are hiding out in a stolen railroad car called "Schmow." Larry wants to marry his girlfriend Lenore ([[Patricia Wright , but she refuses to consent until Shemp marries her sister Roberta . The problem is that Shemp is rarely sober, and madly in love with an imaginary giant canary named Carrie. A private investigator from the railroad  finds the missing train, and is trying to get a sense of how the car was stolen from a moving train. As fate would have it, Moe had a previous relationship with Roberta, and has not seen her for years. He is ecstatic to find her after many years of disconnect, and tries his best to rekindle the long dormant love affair. Moe then decides to abandon his responsibilities and stay with the group, trying to marry Roberta. In the end, Shemp winds up with both women, but still prefers his imaginary bird.Irritated neighbor Wendell Burnshaw  brings the Larkin family to the attention of the Internal Revenue Service. Lorenzo Charlton  is assigned to the case by his boss, Kelsey . Ma  and Pop Larkin  warmly welcome him to their family farm in Maryland, at first unaware of why he is there. Lorenzo is aghast to learn that the Larkins have never filed a tax return. With their cooperation, he sets out to figure out what, if anything, they owe in the way of back taxes, a difficult task, as Pop usually just trades for what they need and keeps no records. Lorenzo and the eldest Larkin daughter, Mariette , become attracted to each other, but he does not let that get in the way of his work, at least not at first. However, as time goes by, he begins to loosen up and lose some of his buttoned-down mentality. When Kelsey and Burnshaw drop by to check his progress, Kelsey is displeased with this development. He takes charge of the investigation and sends Lorenzo back to the office in disgrace. Kelsey calculates the Larkins owe $50,000. The Larkins are unable to pay such a large sum, so Kelsey tells them they can either sell the farm to Burnshaw or face foreclosure. The Larkins' many friends rally round them and offer to buy some of their junk for inflated prices, but Pop proudly turns them down. Meanwhile, Mariette goes to see Lorenzo. The family's only hope is a receipt for 30 horses bought by the government in the American Civil War and never paid for. With great difficulty, they manage to see Inspector General Bigelow ([[Charles Lane . His legal department calculates that the Larkins are owed, with all the interest that has accrued, over $14 million. Pop decides not to accept it, as he did nothing to earn it, but Lorenzo gets Bigelow to agree to apply it against all present and future taxes owing.They are two brothers… and they are twins. Radoslav is a young and talented soccer player, playing in a team from Varna, while Radosvet is an impossible gambler, chased by the police. Radoslav meets the beautiful Elena on the beach and they fall in love. However, she is from Sofia and soon takes the train home. After a bit of confusion, instead of the address of Elena, Radoslav gets a completely useless piece of paper. Elena seems like a lost dream but he is soon determined to go to Sofia, walk along the streets and find her. In the meantime, three soccer teams, one of which from Sofia, decide to bid for Radoslav and send agents to Varna to negotiate with him. As Radoslav is already in Sofia, the negotiators encounter Radosvet. Of course, our gambler decides to take the best out of the situation and, pretending to be Radoslav, signs a contract with the club from Sofia. Now both brothers are in Sofia. Radoslav keeps on searching for his Elena without the slightest suspicion of his brother’s intrigues. But Radosvet is the one hitting the jackpot, meeting Elena. However, his behavior is unbearably impudent; she slaps his face and does not want to see him anymore. Clearly, she does not suspect that this is not Radoslav. A few moments later, when by the will of fortune, she finally meets the true Radoslav, all her anger is transferred over him. He manages to clarify the situation and they both go to see the first game of Radosvet, who plays with number 13. Of course, the team of Radosvet is defeated, after a myriad of comic situations. It becomes clear to everyone that both brothers have switched places. Radoslav gets the offer to go to play in Sofia, but he declines it and with Elena leaves for Varna.The film is set in a Middle Eastern country whose absolute ruler, Abdullah , lives a life of great luxury, surrounded by lovely women. When Ronnie, a beautiful English model , arrives, Abdullah falls for her and offers her great riches. She resists his advances as she is more interested in Ahmed , an officer in the King's army. While this is going on, Abdullah is unaware of the growing discontent among his subjects which threatens to overthrow him.By the Light of the Silvery Moon relates the further adventures of the Winfield family in small town Indiana as daughter Marjorie Winfield's boyfriend, William Sherman, returns from the Army after WWI. Bill & Marjorie's on-again, off-again romance provides the backdrop for other family crises, caused mainly by son Wesley's wild imagination.Naive country girl Lili  arrives in a provincial town in hopes of locating an old friend of her late father's, only to find that he has also died. A local shopkeeper offers her employment and a meal, then tries to take advantage of her. She is rescued by a handsome, smooth-talking, womanizing carnival magician, Marc, whose stage name is Marcus the Magnificent . Lili is infatuated with him and follows him to the carnival where, on learning that she is only 16, he decides to help her get a job as waitress. Lili is fired on her first night when she spends her time watching the magic act instead of waiting tables. When Lili consults the magician for advice, he tells her to go back to where she came from. Homeless and heartbroken, she contemplates suicide, unaware that she is being watched by the carnival's puppeteer Paul . He stops her by striking up a conversation with her through his puppets &mdash; a brash red-haired boy named Carrot Top, a sly fox named Reynardo, a vain ballerina named Marguerite, and a cowardly giant named Golo the Giant. Soon a large group of carnival workers gather and are enthralled watching Lili's direct interaction with the puppets, as she is seemingly unaware that there is a puppeteer behind the curtain. Afterwards, Paul and his partner Jacquot  offer Lili a job in the act, talking with the puppets. She accepts and her natural and pure manner of interacting with the puppets becomes the most valuable part of the act. Paul was once a well-known dancer, but suffered a leg injury in World War II. He regards the puppet show as far inferior to his old career, which embitters him. Lili refers to him as "the Angry Man." Although he falls in love with Lili, he can only express his feelings through the puppets. Fearing rejection due to his physical impairment, he keeps his distance by being consistently unpleasant to her, even as Jacquot warns him that he is driving Lili away. Lili continues to dream about the handsome magician, wishing to replace his sexy assistant Rosalie . Soon, Marcus receives an offer to perform at the local casino and decides to leave the carnival, much to the joy of Rosalie, who can now announce to everyone that she is his wife. Lili is heartbroken and innocently invites Marc to her trailer. His lecherous plans are interrupted by Paul, and he leaves. When Lili finds his wedding ring and tries to chase after him, she is stopped by Paul who calls her a fool and hits her. Lili runs off to think. Two impresarios from Paris who have been scouting the show for a few days come to see Paul and Jacquot. They soon recognize Paul as the former dancer, and tell him that his current act with Lili and the puppets is ingenious. Paul is ecstatic about this and the offer, but Jacquot tells the agents that they will have to let them know at a later time. He tells Paul in private that Lili is leaving. Lili takes the wedding ring to Marc and tells him that every little girl grows up and has to wake up from her girlish dreams and open her eyes. She has decided to leave the carnival. On her way out she is stopped by the familiar voices of Carrot Top and Reynardo, who ask her to take them with her. As they embrace her, she finds they are shaking. She remembers there is actually somebody behind the curtain, and pulls it away to see Paul. Instead of telling her how he feels and asking her to stay, he tells her of the agents' offer. She confronts him about the difference between his real self, seemingly incapable of love, and his puppets. He tells her he is the puppets, each and all, a creature of many facets and many flaws, as is any other man. He concludes by telling her, "this is business." "Not anymore," retorts Lili, who turns and walks away. Walking the lonely road out of town, she imagines that the puppets, now life-size, have joined her. As she dances joyfully with Carrot Top, he turns into Paul. Dismayed, she draws back, and he fades away. Facing the other three, Marguerite brings her along next, but then she, too, turns into Paul and fades away. She begins to realize that what Paul said about being all the puppets is true, and slowly walks to Reynardo and dances with him. When he, too, turns into Paul and runs away, she throws herself into the arms of Golo, the last puppet, who turns into Paul and stays with her, dancing. Coming back to reality, Lili runs back to the carnival and into Paul's waiting arms. They kiss passionately as the puppets applaud.Grouchy, stubborn, and egotistical Professor Isak Borg is a widowed 78-year-old physician who specialized in bacteriology. Before specializing he served as general practitioner in rural Sweden. He sets out on a long car ride from Stockholm to Lund to be awarded the degree of Doctor Jubilaris 50 years after he received his doctorate from Lund University. He is accompanied by his pregnant daughter-in-law Marianne, who does not much like her father-in-law and is planning to separate from her husband, Evald, Isak's only son. During the trip, Isak is forced by nightmares, daydreams, his old age, and his impending death to reevaluate his life. He meets a series of hitchhikers, each of whom set off dreams or reveries into Borg's troubled past. The first group consist of two young men and a woman named Sara, who is adored by both men. Sara is a double for Isak's love of his youth . The first group remains with him throughout his journey. Next they pick up an embittered middle-aged couple whose vehicle has nearly collided with theirs. The pair exchange such a terrible vitriol and venom that Marianne stops the car and asks them to leave. They remind Isak of his own life and unhappy marriage. He reminisces about his childhood in the seaside, and his sweetheart Sara. He is confronted by his loneliness and aloofness, recognizing these traits in both his ancient mother and in his middle-aged physician son, and he gradually begins to accept himself, his past, his present, and his approaching death.<ref namehttp://www.guardian.co.uk/film/1999/jun/10/1|title10 June 1999|workLondon | firstMalcolm}}{{cite news}} {{Dead link}}{{cite web}} Borg finally arrives at his destination and picks up his prize, which proves an empty ritual. That night, he bids a loving goodbye to his young friends, to whom the once bitter old man whispers in response to a playful declaration of the young girl's love, "I'll remember." As he goes to his bed in his son's home, he is overcome by a sense of peace and dreams of a family picnic by a lake. Closure and affirmation of life have finally come, and Borg's face radiates joy.Television writer and director Elliott Nash  is being blackmailed by Dan Shelby over nude photographs of his wife Nell , taken when she was eighteen years old. Elliott does not inform Nell, the star of a Broadway musical, what is going on, but works feverishly to make enough money to pay off the ever-increasing demands. Finally, Elliott decides that murder is the only way out. He makes preparations, incorporating some advice from a friend, District Attorney Harlow Edison . When the blackmailer shows up at the Nashs' suburban home as arranged to collect his latest payment, Elliott shoots him, then hides the body in the cement foundation being poured for the antique gazebo his wife has bought. He has to keep Sam Thorpe , the contractor hired to install the structure, and Miss Chandler , the real estate agent trying to sell the Nashes' house, from stumbling across his scheme. Then, Harlow brings news that Shelby has been shot and killed ... in his hotel room, leaving Elliott wondering who he murdered. Nell's name is on a list of blackmail victims belonging to Shelby, so both she and Elliott are suspects.  They are cleared when the murder weapon is found to belong to Joe the Black, an associate of Shelby's. It is clear to Lieutenant Jenkins  that Joe decided not to split the money. Elliott is relieved to discover his victim was a criminal. However, there were two others in the gang. The Duke  and Louis the Louse  kidnap Nell and take her to her home. They followed Joe the Black to the Nash house, and know he did not come out. They want the briefcase  he was planning to disappear with. They eventually figure out that the body is in the gazebo's foundation, now crumbling due to unexpected rain. They find the briefcase and leave. When Elliott gets home, he unties his wife and confesses what he has done. While they are trying to figure out what to do next, Lieutenant Jenkins shows up with his prisoners, the Duke and Louis. From what they have told him, Jenkins is sure that Elliott is a murderer. Just as Elliott is about to confess, he sees that the bullet he fired missed Joe and ended up lodged in a book. A doctor confirms that Joe actually died of a preexisting heart problem, and Elliott's pet pigeon Herman flies off with the bullet, so there is no evidence to tie him to the death.A beautiful, sophisticated New York woman who goes by the name Dunreath Henry seems to have it all. She is not only the private secretary to the wealthy and popular cartoonist Larry Larkin, she is also his fiancee. But back in Port Huron, Michigan when she was a girl, she was plain old Ethel Jankowski. And she used to be married to another cartoonist, the talented but neurotic Francis X. Dignan, who was once an associate of the famed Al Capp. One day, when Larkin's syndicate complains that his boy-and-dog comic strip "Snips and Runty" hasn't been as funny as it used to be, Dunreath hatches a scheme. Larry is leaving on a business trip and she is busy planning their honeymoon, so why not hire Dignan to ghost-write the strip? Dignan doesn't want to do it and certainly can't stand the snooty Larkin, but he needs the money for his psychiatrist, who is trying to find out why any setback or stress leads to Dignan experiencing a bad case of nausea. A lot of interesting developments take place in Larkin's Manhattan penthouse while the cartoonist is away. Dignan's strips are humorous and a hit. Old feelings begin to stir in Dunreath, having him around. Larkin's housekeeper, Gussie, begins to play matchmaker. A young orphan, Norman, arrives one day because Larkin intends to adopt him. Dignan is impressed until he discovers that Larkin's interested only in the publicity, not in the child. The TV program "Person to Person" is coming to do a live interview, so Larkin wants a cute boy and happy puppy there by his side, just like his cartoon figures Snips and Runty. Dignan is offended. He is supposed to find a small dog for Larkin, but instead brings home one called Happy, a gigantic hound. Dignan also draws a cartoon using Larkin's name portraying Snips as a juvenile delinquent. And if that weren't enough, Larkin comes home to find Dignan and Dunreath dressed in matching pajamas, each having drunk one too many martini. Larkin fires Dignan just before the live TV appearance, which Dignan proceeds to interrupt by declaring his love for Larkin's fiancee. Dunreath decides to dump her betrothed and her fancy new name and live happily ever after with Dignan, Norman and Happy.Jerry Mulligan , an American World War II veteran, is now an exuberant expatriate in Paris trying to make a reputation as a painter. His friend, Adam , is a struggling concert pianist who is a longtime associate of a French singer, Henri Baurel . A lonely society woman, Milo Roberts , takes Jerry under her wing and supports him, but is more interested in Jerry than his art. Jerry remains oblivious to her feelings and falls in love with Lise , a French girl he meets at a restaurant. Lise loves him as well but she is already in a relationship with Henri, to whom she feels indebted for keeping her safe during World War II. For most of the film Jerry is unaware of Lise's relationship with Henri. Eventually Jerry learns that Lise is in love with him but is marrying Henri the next day. He invites Milo to a masked ball that night. At the raucous masked ball, with everyone in black-and-white costumes, Milo learns from Adam that Jerry is not interested in her, and Henri overhears Jerry and Lise saying goodbye to each other. When Henri and Lise drive away, Jerry daydreams about being with her all over Paris to the tune of the George Gershwin composition An American in Paris. His reverie is broken by a car horn, the sound of Henri bringing Lise back to him. They embrace as the Gershwin composition  ends.The film begins in Belsen where Victoria Kowelska reflects on the destruction of her house and family by the Nazis. Her best friend Karin tells her of her son in America and her life there. Karin dies shortly before liberation and Victoria decides to take her identity . The major interviewing her is at first suspicious, but clearly he is attracted to her. He does not know they will later meet... Having found her way to New York she tracks down her family ties to a house in the rich area of San Francisco known as Telegraph Hill. On discussing her background with the family lawyer, Alan Spender, he is at first suspicious but then accepts her as Karin. He proceeds to wine and dine her... then marry her. Her son has been looked after by Margaret, who clearly also has a thing for Spender but is allowed to stay. The four of them live together in the house. Victoria  bumps into the major who is a friend of her new husband, at a party at their house and befriends him. He is clearly in love with her too. Tensions grow between Karin and Margaret and Margaret is dismissed after an argument. However, it then becomes clearer that it is Alan Spender who seeks to get rid of Karin, not Margaret. The car's brakes fail, almost killing Karin. At first Margaret is suspected, but this changes when it becomes clear that Karin's son was also meant to be in the car. Motives become clearer, and Karin reports various findings to the major. Margaret is forgiven and readmitted to the house. One night Karin is sure her orange juice has been poisoned. Alan has indeed poisoned it, and has fixed the phones so calls cannot be made. He returns to the bedroom and drinks his own glass of orange juice. He then explains his plot. Karin, who clearly still has feelings for him, tells him he has poisoned himself because she switched the glasses. She tries to telephone a doctor but can't get through. Alan explains how to fix the phones and it is left to Margaret to call. However, Margaret decides not to call. Alan dies. The police accept the sequence of events, but Margaret is taken away to be potentially charged for not calling a doctor. Karin, having by now revealed her true identity to the major, declares her love for him and he declares his for her. But they can no longer live in the house on Telegraph Hill.The story of vaudeville performer Eva Tanguay is told to a couple of writers who plan to do a script about her for Hollywood producer George Jessel. Her former partner Eddie McCoy tells how they met. Recently widowed, he discovered Eva as a waitress, hearing her sing and offering her a job after she's fired. Eva falls for singer Larry Woods, although piano player Charles Bennett also has eyes for her. Eva is offended and sets out on her own when she finds out that Larry is married. Bennett is found by the writers and claims Eddie's story is untrue. Eva was already singing in a cafe when she and Eddie first met. Unable to get Eddie to sober up, she breaks up their act and is discovered by Florenz Ziegfeld, who signs Eva for his famed Follies. She learns that Larry's marriage is on the rocks, but is put off when the leading role in Larry's new operetta is apparently going to Stella, another singer. Eva hires someone to throw tomatoes at Larry on stage, unaware that when he steps out to perform, Larry, having enlisted to fight in the war, will be wearing his Army uniform. Eva's prank backfires and she is disconsolate for quite a while, but in the end, Larry wins her back.Tambrey "Tammy" Tyree  is a seventeen-year-old girl living in a houseboat in Mississippi  with her Grandpa, John Dinwitty . She runs around barefoot, dreaming of life outside of the swamp, and talking to her best friend, Nan, a goat. One day in the swamp, Tammy discovers the wreckage of a plane and the unconscious body of Peter Brent . Tammy and her grandfather help Peter recover at their home, during which Tammy falls in love with Peter. However, he must return to his own home, but tells Tammy that if anything happened to her grandfather, she would be welcome to come and stay with him. Several weeks later, Tammy's grandfather is arrested for making moonshine. With no one else to stay with, Tammy sets off for Brentwood Hall. She arrives during a dance rehearsal and sees Peter with his friends. When Peter's friend Ernie discovers Tammy outside of the party, Tammy tries to explain her grandfather's imprisonment; however, Peter misunderstands, and tells Mrs. Brent  that Tammy's grandfather has died, leading the Brents to take her in. Tammy learns that Peter is busy with "Brentwood #6," a tomato that he is growing in hopes of making Brentwood Hall self-sustaining once again. After Tammy finally tells everyone that her grandfather isn't actually dead, Mrs. Brent is upset over Tammy announcing to everyone that she has a relative in jail. However, Peter and his Aunt Renie convince Tammy to stay, leading her to sing of her love for Peter. Peter's love interest drops by Brentwood Hall. Her uncle wants Peter to stop meddling around with tomatoes and offers him a deal to come to work with him in the advertising business. Peter turns down the offer. That week is also Pilgrimage Week, which includes a ball and tours of Brentwood Hall, all while in costume. Renie gives Tammy the dress that Peter's great-grandmother wore. Mrs. Brent and Renie suggest that Tammy pretend to be Great-Grandmother Cratchett for the evening. At the Ball that night, Tammy tells a story for the guests, and enchants everyone, even Mrs. Brent. That night, a hail storm hits Brentwood Hall and destroys all of the Brentwood #6s. The next morning, Peter announces that he is going to accept the advertising offer, leading Tammy to run away. Peter realizes he loves Tammy, finds Tammy's grandfather, and returns to the houseboat, where he kisses her.The Bowery Boys' landlady Mrs. Kelly believes in a theory proposed by Dr. Simon Noble. The theory is that through hypnosis, one can regress into a former life that they supposedly lived centuries ago. The boys believe that Noble is a phony until Sach manages to get himself hypnotized. Evidently Sach once lived as Algy Winkle, an English tax collector in Charleston, South Carolina. Winklemanaged to receive a map from Captain Blackbeard leading to buried treasure.John and Barbie Lomax  have been married for almost 20 years, but the marriage has seemingly reached breaking point. After leaving the army, John has been working hard on making a career for himself as a barrister, which takes up all of his time and attention, leaving him exhausted and irritable. He acts intolerantly and dismissively towards Barbie and their three children, and the marital relationship comes under intolerable strain as the couple argue, bicker and snipe constantly at each other. Realising that the poisoned atmosphere is not good for the children to experience, they agree that in the circumstances divorce is the lesser evil. They are unprepared for how badly the children react when they break the news. The children jump to the conclusion that family friend 'Uncle' Bill Ogden  is to blame, assuming from what they have seen that he has designs on Barbie. While this is true, it does not explain the depth of unhappiness felt by both their parents at their increasingly acrimonious relationship. As the wheels of the divorce are set in motion, John and Barbie are faced with coming to agreement about what should happen to the children, whether all should be given to the custody of one parent, or whether they should be split up. Caught in the middle, the children take matters into their own hands, forcing their parents to reassess the wisdom of the path they are about to take. Finally they are forced into an about-face after realising the destructive effect of divorce on the children. They look again at their relationship and see that they are still in love with each other and both have been partly to blame for the breakdown in communication between them. They decide not to go any further with the divorce, and resolve in future to work with each other rather than carping and criticising.The film takes place 20–23 August 1958. Crime Author Bernhard Borge and his wife Sonja, psychoanalyst Kai Bugge, magazine editor Gabriel Mørk, lawyer Harald Gran and his fiancée Liljan Werner are six Oslo people who will visit Bjørn Werner  in his cabin deep in the Østerdal forests. But, when the guests arrive, Werner is missing and his dog is found dead at a pond nearby. It's not long before they begin to ponder the old legend that is associated with the place: a man is said to have killed his sister and her lover and then drowned himself in the lake. It is said that everyone who stays in the house - the murder's cabin - would be possessed by a strange attraction: They would be forced to drown themselves in the pond. The company decides to solve the mystery, but soon, it appears that they are exposed to the mysterious, fascinating powers that are tied to the lake.Ted Hutchens  is a code expert working in intelligence at the American Embassy in London. On a night out to the Royal Ballet at Covent Garden he meets a young woman named Anna , and the pair fall immediately in love. The problem is that Anna is the daughter of the Soviet ambassador in London. It is made clear to both that their relationship cannot continue in such a political climate, and their movements are constantly monitored by surveillance units from both sides. However they continue to meet in secret, attempting to outwit both the American and Soviet surveillance services. Eventually, when Anna discovers she is pregnant, the couple decide that their love is stronger than the demands of political exigeancy, and make their escape together across a stormy English Channel. The film is open-ended, with no indication as to whether or not they succeed. The Young Lovers was noted in its time for its relatively frank depiction of a sexual relationship between a non-married couple, and was praised for its even-handedness in presenting Anna's father  in a sympathetic manner, as a man torn between his political duty and the desire for his daughter's happiness.Amidst endless construction and aircraft noise, a family whose father died in the war slowly disintegrates, as the daughter and stepmother juggle for position.Chokkalingam Navilur  is a diwan at Vanjikottai Kingdom. He with his wife, Sivakami  is loyal to their King, where Chokkalingam without any hesitation accused that Senathipathi , the brother of King's second wife, Maharani Ranthamani Devi  over the trial to kill the prince . Over his guilt, the king ordered Senathipathi to be banished but the help by one of his army make him stay in the kingdom without anyone's knowledge. He later set up a fire in the city and stab the king with his sword. The king before dying had uttered to Chokkalingam to save his daughter Padma ([[Padmini  and the infant prince and died afterward. In order to fulfill the king's desire. He sailed on a boat with the king's children leaving his family. Soon his wife also did the same with her children but only to be caught by the Senathipathi's army. Leaving her children on the moving boat, she spent her whole life at an island prison. After, 10 years, the grown up Sunder  plan to arrange his sister's wedding, but it was interrupted by Senathipathi by kidnapping Gowri  in Sunder's absence. While returning home for the preparation for the engagement, Sunder spots Gowri with Senathipathi in his vehicle, in order to escape from Senathipathi, Gowri jumps out of the vehicle and dies soon. Sunder who seeks justice from Senathipathi, he planned to kill him but only to be precluded by his army. After he is found guilty over his action, Sunder later banished to a jail island where he should be serving a sentence of life punishment. There, he gets the chance to meet his mother who is also spending her whole life for her deed. She explains to him about persecution that did by Senathipathi to his family and the Vanjikottai kingdom. They both soon planned to escape from the prison, her mother soon died while Sunder escaped by fell into the sea. He soon saved by ship carrying some slave to Ratna Island. There Sunder meet with Princess Mandakini  who at first averse to the attitude of Sunder, who ignores her beauty and did not response towards her assertive and arrogant behavior of Mandakini. Later she falls for him and give him a special treatment, though Sunder also likes her but he requested Mandakini to release him in order to find his father and solve the conspiracy in his kingdom. She agrees with all the requests on the condition that he would return within one month. Provided with jewelry, clothes and bot, she sent Sunder to his kingdom. Meanwhile, Chokkalingam who is living in one of the hinterland village with Padma and planning a reformation along with Murugan who serve as his spy at Vanjikottai. After the awareness of the reforms were disseminated to the masses themselves In Vanjikottai, Chokkalingam return to Vanjikkottai to take down Senathipathi's government. He was later joint by Sunder, Padma, Murugan, Rangamma, Velan and his wife. Sunder has acted as a jeweler in and had deceived Maharani Ranthamani Devi and Senathipathi by gain their trust on him. He later invite them to his palace to watch a dance by Padma. He also planned to release Chokkalingam, Murugan and his wife Rangamma who were arrested by Senathipathi during their reformation. After one month, Mandakini had came to Vanjikottai to search for Sunder. She set up her camp at the border of Vanjikottai and sent her spy to locate Sunder's place. While spotting Sunder and Bathma together, her spy mistaken that Sunder is in love with Bathma. Mandakini who heard the news approached Sunder. Unable to explain his situation, Sunder ask Mandakini to watch the show along with Maharani Ranthamani Devi and Senathipathi, eavesdrop their conversation Bathma realize Sunder's love towards Mandakini and changed her mind by forgetting her love. In the court, while watching the dance performed by Bathma, Mandakini was averse by the meaning of Bathma's song which indirectly tells her feeling towards Sunder. Soon, Mandakini changed her costume and give a dance battle for Bathma. Watching Bathma who almost faint during the rotation, Sunder cut the chandelier's rope making the chandelier to breakdown, thus ending the dance competition. Then he ordered Velan to dragged Mandakini out and tie her into a room. After Senathipathi had become intoxicated after drinking some solution, Sunder used this situation and has been masquerading as Senathipathi and rescued Murugan and Rangamma from the prison. He also get to know that Chokkalingam was brought to the island prison to undergo the death penalty. Meanwhile, Mandakini who had escaped from Velan joined Senathipathi and secrete the secret about the place where Chokkalingam, Sunder, Bathma and others were hiding. For her deed, she asked him to send Sunder to her in order to live with him. Senathipathi arrest all of them including Sunder. Mandakini who has realized Senathipathi's trick over her, she gathered her kingdom's army to save Sunder and others. Murugan and the people of Vanjikottai headed to Senathipathi's palace to bring down his government. Knowing this, Senathipathi leave the palace for the immediate execution of Sunder's and others death penalty. Murugan get to know the place where the execution occur, he brings his people to kill Senathipathi. Mandakini who also arrive there with her army jointt the battle to bring down Senathipathi. During the battle, Senathipathi throws his sword over Sunder but hits Mandakini when she tries to protect him. The battle was ended with the murder of Senathipathi and Mandakini breathed her last breath while uniting Bathma with Sunder.Sach receives news that he is the heir to the Terwilliger Debussy Jones fortune. Accompanied by his pal Slip, he arrives at the Jones mansion to review the legal papers needed for him to claim his new fortune. However, Sach and Slip discover that the rightful heir, the young Terwilliger III, is being cheated out his inheritance by the miscreant duo of Stuyvesant Jones and Clarissa. Sach and Slip, with the help of their fellow Bowery Boys, save the day and restore the heir’s inheritance.{{cite news}}The film is an exposé of the lives and loves of the residents of a small New England mill town, where scandal, homicide, suicide, incest, and moral hypocrisy hide behind a tranquil façade in the years immediately preceding and following World War II. At the core of its plot are three women. Constance MacKenzie is a prim and proper sexually repressed woman who had an affair with a married New York City businessman and bore him a child out of wedlock. She has struggled to shield her daughter Allison, a high school senior and aspiring author, from her tarnished past, leading her to believe she returned to Peyton Place with her newborn baby after her husband died. Selena Cross, Allison's best friend, is a good girl living on the wrong side of the tracks. Her alcoholic step-father, Lucas Cross, terrorizes the family, abusing his wife and child behind closed doors. Other characters include Allison's classmate and confidant Norman Page, anxious to gain his independence; bad girl Betty Anderson, who longs to have a relationship with wealthy Rodney Harrington; new school principal Michael Rossi, who attempts to crack Constance's icy veneer; and Dr. Matthew Swain, the town's leading physician who places his long time medical career in jeopardy to save Selena during the trial in which she is charged with Lucas's murder.When the Mexican Revolution was exploding, there was a woman who made history, her name was La cucaracha . Her great passion was the Revolution, but her downfall was a man: The Colonel Antonio Zeta , who has eyes for another woman, Isabel, the Widow . The rivalry between both women explodes.Dr. Jeff Cameron  tends to an attempted suicide victim named Margo  brought to San Francisco General Hospital. She later checks out, but sends him a telegram telling him her address in case he wants to hear her story. To his surprise, he finds she lives in a mansion. He breaks a date with his nurse girlfriend, Julie , because he is worried Margo may try to commit suicide again. As time goes on, he falls in love with Margo. However, when she tells Jeff that she is flying to Nassau with her aged father the next day, he shows up unannounced and boldly tells Frederick Lannington  that he is in love with the man's "daughter". Lannington, however, informs him that Margo is his wife and that she married him for his money. Stunned, Jeff leaves despite Margo's pleas. When he hears her scream, he returns and finds her holding an earring ripped from her ear. Lannington starts beating Jeff with a fireplace poker; in the ensuing struggle, Lannington strikes his head on the floor and is knocked unconscious. Dazed, Jeff goes to the bathroom; when he returns, he finds the old man dead. Jeff wants to call the police, but Margo insists they would believe it was murder. She persuades him to run away with her . They first try to use the airline tickets, but hurry away when they spot policemen at the ticket desk. They decide to drive to Mexico instead, taking the precaution of trading in Margo's convertible for a pickup truck provided by larcenous used car salesman "Honest Hal". At a stop, Jeff diagnoses his continuing headaches and mental fog as a concussion, warning Julie that it will lead to first paralysis of the extremities, perhaps even one side of his body, followed by a coma within 24 to 48 hours. In Roseville, Arizona, they are taken to the sheriff, but it is only because Jeff is not wearing a beard for the "Wild West Whiskers Week". After Margo explains they are on their way to Mexico to get married, the police chief  tells them that marriages are a Postville specialty and insists they get wed there that very night. While Jeff is out of the bedroom of their honeymoon suite, Julie listens to the news on the radio; she becomes enraged when the broadcast discloses she had been undergoing psychiatric treatment. Later, after the couple sneak away, the police chief identifies Margo from a photo and alerts the border patrol. It is revealed that Lannington was smothered to death with a pillow. In a border town, the fugitives sell Margo's $9000 bracelet to a pawnbroker for $1000. When the man sees that they are anxious to avoid the police, he sends them to theatre owner Milo DeLong , who offers to smuggle them into Mexico ... for $1000. As they wait, Jeff's left side becomes paralyzed. Then he finally realizes that Margo is mentally unstable and that she killed her husband. He decides not to go to Mexico; when he tries to stop Margo from leaving, she knocks him down, then smothers him. Fortunately, he was only rendered unconscious. He drags himself downstairs and out to the border crossing. When Margo sees him coming, she pulls a pistol out of her purse and starts shooting at him. The police return fire, fatally wounding her. Before she dies, she absolves Jeff of any blame. While recovering, Jeff asks his doctor if he can send a flower to someone. The doctor steps out into the hall and sends Julie in to see him.After an argument with her husband, Lucy Church storms out of her house and goes to see a film at the local cinema. While looking for the toilet she stumbles across the office where she witnesses the murder of the cinema manager by two criminals Wade and Barney who are in the process of robbing the cinema's safe. When they pursue her, she is struck by a bus and is taken to hospital. Unable to leave the town until they know what has happened to her, the two robbers head to the hospital to observe her. Meanwhile her husband Jay Church has grown concerned and scours the town searching for her. At the hospital the medical staff attend to Lucy and place her in a quiet ward although she has yet to regain coconsciousness. Ward, watching from the nearby shrubbery realises that if she lives she would be able to identify him and he would be hanged for murder and he decides to murder her in spite of the protests of his partner, Barney who has grown disillusioned with his sinister intent. Wade is uninterested and beats him. He tries to enter the hospital several times to strangle her, but is foiled by the watchfulness of an elderly patient. Eventually, Ward is forced to assume the disguise of a hospital orderly and takes Lucy to the operating theatre where he plans to murder her - only to be prevented by the sudden reappearance of Barney, his associate.{{Plot}} Sixteen-year-old Eiko, carrying a bundle of her possessions, walks down the streets of Gion in search of the okiya run by the geisha Miyoharu. As she approaches the screen doors, she witnesses an exchange between Miyoharu and a client. The client, greatly indebted and unable to afford Miyoharu's services, is coldly and mockingly berated by Miyoharu for his presumptuousness. Enraged by the sudden demise of her affected desire for him and her mercenary attitude, he tries to assault her but is thwarted and summarily evicted by Miyoharu's servants. As he sees the client off the premises, one of the servants finds Eiko at the door and invites her inside. In supplication, Eiko reveals that the death of her mother – a geisha and close friend of Miyoharu – has left her at the mercy of her uncle, who demands that Eiko repay the debt incurred by her mother's funeral expenses by rendering sexual services to him. She pleads with Miyoharu to take her on as an apprentice maiko. Miyoharu attempts to dissuade her, on the grounds that life as a geisha is difficult and the training exceptionally arduous, but in the face of Eiko's determination she finds sympathy for the girl's situation and concedes. She sends her servant to procure the formal consent of Eiko's father, a struggling businessman, but he refuses to grant permission on the grounds that Eiko has shamed him by choosing to enter her mother's profession. Nonetheless, Miyoharu decides to allow Eiko to pursue training and enrols her in the school. While she works as a maid in the okiya, Eiko learns dance and music from her instructors, who inform her that she must work hard to maintain the high standards required of a maiko as a symbol of Japanese beauty. Within a year, Eiko has achieved the necessary level of training to be formally introduced as a maiko. In order to make the arrangements for her debut, which must be noticeably opulent in order to attract her future clientele, Miyoharu visits the proprietor of a prosperous teahouse to procure a loan of 300,000 yen. Okimi, the proprietor, grudgingly assents to assist her with the money. With the new geisha name of Miyoei, Eiko is taken round the teahouses of Gion in full formal dress escored by Miyoharu. In Okimi's teahouse, the two geishas are seated with Kusuda and his associate, who are in the process of convincing a manager on the verge of promotion to the directorship of another prosperous company, Kanzaki, to sign a contract worth 80 million yen. Kanzaki is instantly taken with Miyoharu and strokes her arm during a subsequent dance recital performed by other attending geisha. Kusuda preys upon the vulnerable Miyoei by pouring her consecutive glasses of sake that she is obliged by etiquette to drink, despite Miyoharu's remonstrations. During the recital, Kusuda takes Okimi aside and inquires as to whether Miyoharu has a patron. Failing to establish Kusuda's motives, Okimi answers that she does not. When they finally return to the okiya after a successful debut, Miyoei is totally inebriated and mocks Miyoharu for her old-fashioned 'pre-war' attitude. A package containing a congratulatory gift for Miyoei from her father implies, as Miyoharu points out, that he has relented his earlier opposition to her career as a maiko. At the geisha school, Miyoei asks her instructor about her rights as set out under the post-war constitution, and on her rights should a client desire to force himself upon her. The instructor answers that while she does indeed have these rights, it would be unthinkable for her to refuse a client. On leaving the class, Miyoei converses with a fellow student who is troubled by the efforts of her okiya to force her to take an elderly man as a patron to ensure her financial security. Elsewhere in Gion, at the shrines where they pay their respects, Okimi raises Kusuda's agenda of taking on Miyoei as her patron. Miyoharu is extremely resistant to the proposal, although when Okimi reveals that she borrowed the money for Miyoei's debut from Kusuda on the promise that he would be entitled to take her on later, Miyoharu is obliged to take it under consideration. Okimi also suggests that Miyoharu herself take on a patron, to assure her future and Miyoei's. Later, at the teahouse, Okimi tries to directly persuade the recalcitrant Miyoei to accede to Kusuda's proposal. Miyoei manages to remain aloof and promises to think on it. She flirts with Kusuda as Miyoharu entertains Kanzaki, subtly fending off his advances. The two geisha agree to accompany Kusuda to the annual music festival in Tokyo. On the train to Tokyo they encounter Miyoei's father, who has fallen on extremely hard times and tells Miyoharu that his debts have become so crippling that suicide will soon be his only resort. When they reach Tokyo, Kusuda manipulates Miyoharu into entertaining Kanzaki with the expectation that she will spend the night with him. She is extremely reluctant, but under intense pressure relents and joins Kanzaki. While she is in the other room with Kanzaki, Kusuda forces himself on Miyoei. Hearing her screams, Miyoharu runs to her rescue, and finds her in a catatonic daze on the floor with her mouth streaked with blood. Kusuda writhes on the floor in pain from the facial wounds inflicted by Miyoei as Miyoharu attempts to bind them. At Kusuda's hospital bed, his associate explains to Okimi that while they are prepared to 'forgive' Miyoei for her treatment of Kusuda, their principal concern is with Miyoharu's reluctance to aid them in seducing Kanzaki, which must be remedied before they can continue to patronise the teahouse. Okimi arranges a meeting with Miyoharu, who she sharply criticises for her insolence in thwarting a client's desires and demeaning her profession. Okimi flaunts her influence over Miyoharu, threatening to cut off her custom, but Miyoharu refuses to relinquish either herself to Kanzaki or Miyoei to Kusuda. As a consequence of her refusal, all Miyoharu's engagements are cancelled by teahouse proprietors afraid of Okimi's influence, despite district regulations prohibiting the inhibition of other establishments' custom by any one proprietor. The two geisha are forced into poverty, and Miyoharu lies in a slump at the okiya. Elsewhere in Gion, other clients and geisha mock the assault on Miyoei. Kanzaki, drunk and escorted by several other geisha, visits Miyoharu to taunt her for her stubborn coldness towards him. Miyoei's father, in a pathetic state, also pays Miyoharu a visit as his last recourse to secure a loan and save his life from his debtors. While highly critical of his hypocrisy in seeking assistance from the earnings of the daughter he disowned, she offers him her last remaining possessions. Despite Miyoharu's support for her actions to defend her rights and insistence that she maintain her dignity, Miyoei defies her and presents herself to Okimi to be taken to Kusuda. Okimi is obliged to call Miyoharu to obtain her formal consent, which Miyoharu denies. She asks Okimi to send Miyoei back to the okiya in exchange for her presenting herself to Kusuda to be given to Kanzaki. Passing Miyoei on her way to the teahouse, she bitterly berates her for insolence. After spending the night with Kanzaki, Miyoharu returns to the okiya laden with gifts for Miyoei. Wary of the sudden change in their fortunes, Miyoei demands to know whether Miyoharu prostituted herself to Kanzaki and threatens to leave if her suspicions are confirmed. Miyoharu is forced to admit that she did, but goes on to explain that her actions were in the pursuit of preserving Miyoei's dignity and innocence. She sobs as she confesses that she feels that Miyoei is her only family, and they embrace.Naomi Murdoch abandons her husband and children in Wisconsin, setting off to become an actress and also to flee from an aggressive former suitor, Dutch Heineman. She decides to return 10 years later at the invitation of daughter Lily, who is appearing in a school play and about to graduate. Lily is delighted, as are townspeople who mistakenly believe Naomi has become a great success on stage. But her schoolteacher husband Henry is unsure how he feels about Naomi being back, as is daughter Joyce, still bitter about her mother's long absence. At the school play, Dutch can't take his eyes off Naomi. A teacher, Sara Harper, now loves Henry but can tell he still has feelings for his long-absent wife. Dutch turns up when Naomi goes for a horseback ride with Joyce and boyfriend Russ. Joyce and her boyfriend leave Naomi by the lake and Dutch shows up tries to embrace Naomi. Naomi refuses his advances and rides home alone. Henry and Naomi reconcile. But Dutch signals that he wants her to meet him at the lake. Naomi goes to tell Dutch that he must leave her alone because she is going to stay with Henry. Dutch says he has been to good to her and tries force himself on her to fend him off, Naomi uses a whip, and struggles with him. During the struggle Dutch's Rifle falls and Dutch is shot Naomi's son Ted helps take Dutch to a doctor, he fears his mother might have had a romantic rendezvous arranged with Dutch that day. Everyone agrees it would be better if Naomi went away. Lily wants to go along, in order to become a famed actress like her mother, whereupon Naomi confesses that her career has actually been a failure. Henry can see from Dutch's wounds that Naomi wanted nothing more to do with him. He prevents Naomi from leaving, wanting to give their life together another try.US embassy employee Lee Cochrane and his wife discover their 18-month old son Simon has been abducted. London Detective Inspector Craig pledges to find the child.In Les Halles, in the heart of Paris, the restaurateur André Chatelin , leads an uneventful life until the arrival from Marseille of Catherine , the daughter of his ex-wife Gabrielle . She tells him her mother is dead and that she is without resources. Chatelin welcomes her under his roof - then marries her. Gérard , a young student that Chatelin looks upon as a son, becomes Catherine's lover, and she sets him at odds with Chatelin. She asks him to kill the restaurateur. He refuses. She kills him. Having discovered that Gabrielle is still alive, declined and drug addicted, Chatelin realises the darkness of Catherine's soul who has always lied to him.The action occurs in 19th century México, when a young liberal named Don José  Rey, arrives in a city, with the intention of marrying his cousin Rosario. This was a marriage of convenience arranged between Pepe's father Juan and Juan's sister, Perfecta . Upon getting to know each other, Pepe and Rosario declare their eternal love, but in steps Don Inocencio, the cathedral canon, who meddles and obstructs the marriage as well as the good intentions of Doña Perfecta and her brother Don Juan. Over the course of time, several events lead up to a confrontation between Pepe Rey and his aunt Perfecta, which is caused by her refusal to allow Pepe and Rosario to marry, because Pepe is a non-believer.The action is set in 16th century France. Diane de Poitiers , mistress of Prince Henri , the future King Henry II, rises to a position of absolute power through her manipulation of the men in her life. Those men include King Francis I  and Diane's husband, the Count de Brèze . Diane's principal foe is the scheming Catherine de' Medici , who for the first time in her life has met her match.Eighteen-year-old Liz Taggart has gone to a lovers' lane with her boyfriend, Owen Clark, who has not yet been introduced to her parents. Unbeknownst to them, a psychopath named Harold Loftus has been watching them. Loftus knocks Owen unconscious and overpowers Liz, taking her to a shack. A couple on a motorcycle try to revive Owen with liquor, but leave when he doesn't wake up. Police arrive and mistakenly conclude that Owen is drunk. At the station, night-shift captain Ed Bates hears the story and realizes that Liz is the daughter of the day-shift captain, Dan Taggart. While holding Liz prisoner, Loftus tries to force himself on her. Loftus' mother, Mabel, phones police when her son does not return home. Liz manages to get hold of Loftus' gun, but finds it's not loaded. Taggart is furious with Owen, blaming him for what has happened, but his wife scolds Taggart for intimidating their daughter to the point that she kept her relationship secret. When the police officers find the shack, Owen saves Taggart's life by leaping on Loftus at the last second. Taggart begins beating Loftus, who cries out for his mother. After Loftus is taken into custody, Taggart invites Owen to accompany Liz back home.The film begins with a special onscreen prologue introduced by broadcast journalist Edward R. Murrow, and featuring footage of an early science fiction/fantasy film by Georges Méliès, A Trip to the Moon , which is based loosely on From the Earth to the Moon by Jules Verne.<ref nameTim |lastA Trip to The Moon |workhttp://www.filmsite.org/voya.html |accessdate http://web.archive.org/web/20070117090347/http://www.filmsite.org/voya.html| archivedate no}} Included also is the launching of an unmanned rocket and footage of the earth receding. Around 1872, an English gentleman Phileas Fogg  claims he can circumnavigate the world in eighty days. He makes a £20,000 wager  with several skeptical fellow members of the Reform Club, that he can arrive back within 80 days before exactly 8:45 pm. Together with his resourceful valet, Passepartout , Fogg sets out on his journey from Paris via a hot air balloon. Meanwhile, suspicion grows that Fogg has stolen £55,000  from the Bank of England so Police Inspector Fix  is sent out by Scotland Yard to trail and arrest Fogg. Hopscotching around the globe, Fogg pauses in Spain, where Passepartout engages in a comic bullfight. In India, Fogg and Passepartout rescue young widow Princess Aouda  from being forced into a funeral pyre with her late husband. The threesome visit Hong Kong, Japan, San Francisco, and the Wild West. Only hours short of winning his wager, Fogg is arrested upon returning to London, by the diligent yet misguided Inspector Fix. At the jail, the humiliated Fix informs Fogg that the real culprit was caught in Brighton. Though eventually exonerated of the charges, he has lost everything&nbsp;— except the love of the winsome Aouda. But salvation is at hand when Passepartout realizes the next morning that, by crossing the International Date Line, they have gained a day. There is still time to reach the Reform Club and win the bet. To the surprise of all waiting at the club, Fogg arrives just before the clock's chime at 8:45 pm. Aouda and Passepartout then arrive. Noticing Fogg's whole travel party has arrived, and noting the fact that a woman and a Frenchman have entered the hallowed British gentlemen's precinct, the Reform Club announces the completion of the journey and The End of the British Empire.In Westport, Connecticut, Augie and Isolde Poole celebrate their fifth wedding anniversary by turning in an application to the Rock-a-Bye adoption agency. Encouraged by their friends and next-door neighbors, Dick and Alice Pepper, who have three children and another due, Isolde, who has been unsuccessful in her attempts to become pregnant, is determined that she and Augie will eventually be parents. While awaiting news of the application to the agency, Isolde decides that she and Augie should continue to try to have a baby on their own, and she enthusiastically follows all the latest advice by pregnancy experts. Although exhausted by Isolde's resolve, Augie worries about having a child while they are living off Isolde's family money as he struggles to make a success as a serious cartoonist. Dick, editor of The Townsman magazine, assures Augie that his publication would gladly hire Augie to write gags, but Isolde insists that Augie hold out for a more important offer. Dick criticizes Augie for being too serious, compared to his own lighthearted manner, which, to Augie's dismay, includes perpetual infidelity. One afternoon some weeks after their application, Estelle Novick, a striking young representative from Rock-a-Bye, visits the Pooles' neighborhood. Having learned of Estelle's presence from other neighbors, Alice takes Isolde home to dress her properly for the interview. When Estelle comes to the Pooles' house, Augie is unaware of her identity and, believing she works for a local charity, drinks two cocktails and behaves casually.  When Dick comes over and makes a pass at Estelle, however, she is outraged and reveals her identity. Reminding the men that Dick is the Pooles' reference, Estelle waves aside their abject apologies and insists that she must report her findings to the agency. When Estelle departs as soon as Isolde returns, Isolde is hurt and angry at Augie and goes home with Alice. Dick tries to comfort Augie by suggesting that Augie might relax if he had an affair, but when Augie scoffs, Dick offers him tranquilizers and leaves. Moments later, Estelle returns to the Pooles', apologizes for her severe behavior and accepts the cocktail Augie offered her earlier. Considering Dick's advice and dispirited by Isolde's anger, Augie is emboldened to ask Estelle to dinner. While driving into town, however, Augie panics and takes one of Dick's tranquilizers. Later, when Augie becomes drowsy, Estelle drives him to a motel and checks him into a room to let him sleep off the pill's effect. The next morning, Augie is mortified to find himself in the motel and, finding a note from Estelle thanking him for his kindness, believes he has been unfaithful to Isolde. Three months later, Isolde is disheartened to have heard nothing from Rock-a-Bye or any of the other adoption agencies. Augie visits Dick and confesses the incident with Estelle, from whom he has just received a call informing him that she is pregnant and leaving the area for her confinement. Fearful that she will demand money, Augie pleads with Dick to hire him at the magazine, then give him a thousand dollar advance. Later that day, Estelle drops by to visit the Pooles to advise them that she believes in a few months they may at last get their baby. Isolde is delighted by the news and Augie weakly announces his new job with Dick's magazine. Alone with Estelle later, Augie presses the money on her, then demands an explanation. Estelle promises to repay the loan, then explains that she owes the Pooles for all of Augie's assistance to her. A few months later, Dick and Alice throw Augie and Isolde a party in anticipation of the arrival of the new baby. While dancing with Dick, Isolde confides that she has found a mysterious thousand dollar imbalance in the Pooles' finances. Realizing this must be the money Augie has given Estelle, Dick invents a story of losing an investment on the stock market and Augie giving him a loan. Surprised but pleased, Isolde asks for the money to be repaid for preparations for the baby. That night, Isolde tells Augie about the bank imbalance and, panicked, Augie hastily admits that he borrowed money from Dick several times and paid it back in full once he was employed. Certain that Augie is covering for Dick, the next day Isolde tells Alice, who promises to repay the money. Some weeks later, Miss MacCracken from Rock-a-Bye telephones to schedule a visit. Unnerved, Augie wonders if he should confess everything to Isolde. Miss MacCracken arrives and informs Isolde and Augie that a baby has just been born and they have been moved to the top of the agency's list. Thrilled, Augie and Isolde welcome the infant baby boy to their home days later, and soon everyone notices the baby's similarity to Augie. Weeks afterward, as the physical similarity grows, Isolde becomes suspicious. When Isolde has Augie's baby picture blown up and Alice mistakes it for the baby, Isolde furiously accuses Augie of infidelity and declares she is leaving him. As Isolde is packing, Miss MacCracken returns to make an inspection of the couples' first month with the baby. Realizing that the couple is breaking up, she declares she must make a report to the agency, but Augie pleads for a week and Miss MacCracken agrees. Desperate to stop Isolde from leaving, Augie then confesses the incident with Estelle. Just then, however, Estelle arrives to congratulate the Pooles and repay Augie the loan. She explains the money made it possible for her husband to continue his research in Australia while she had her baby girl. With her husband's success at publishing a book on his work, she and the baby will join him in Australia. After showing the Pooles a picture of her baby girl and admiring how well the agency did placing the Pooles with their baby, Estelle departs. Isolde apologizes to Augie for her suspicions, then admits to feeling unusual. The Pooles then realize that Isolde is pregnant and retire to the house to celebrate.Muthaiyan is the brave son of Ratnam Pillai and Meenakshi. They are landed gentry and are highly respected in the village for their noble qualities. Meenakshi’s brother Doraiswami, on the other hand, is despised by all for his arrogance, cruelty and dishonourable ways. The two families are not in speaking terms ever since Doraiswami tried to usurp Ratnam Pillai’s traditional rights at the temple festival. Doraiswami’s daughter Sivakami, however, is a good-natured girl who is in love with Muthaiyan. Muthaiyan too reciprocates her love and they are determined to surmount all hurdles and get married. When Doraiswami’s men capture Muthaiyan and keep him a prisoner on the pretext that he had hurled stones at Doraiswami’s prized bull when he had caught it grazing on his crops, Sivakami comes to his rescue. Meanwhile accosting Doraiswami demanding his son’s release, Ratnam Pillai declares bravely that he would overpower the touted bull. But the bull gores him to death. In his dying breath, he elicits a promise from Meenakshi that she would ensure that their son sets right this slur on their honour. Muthaiyan’s mother makes him promise that he would not even think of Sivakami anymore. Sivakami’s father too has isolated her in house arrest and has started looking out for a suitable husband for her. How Muthaiyan wins the hand of Sivakami after overpowering the mighty bull Senkodan and reforming his wily uncle forms rest of the tale.Resourceful Schatze Page , spunky Loco Dempsey , and ditzy Pola Debevoise  rent a luxurious Sutton Place penthouse from Freddie Denmark , who is avoiding the IRS by living in Europe. The women plan to use it to attract and marry millionaires. When money is tight, Schatze pawns some of Freddie's furniture, without his knowledge of course; as winter approaches, the furnishings gradually vanish. One day, Loco carries in some groceries, assisted by Tom Brookman ([[Cameron Mitchell . Tom is very interested in Schatze, but she knows from prior marital experience what he is — a "gas pump jockey" — and tries repeatedly to brush him off, without success. She has her sights on bigger game: the charming, classy widower J.D. Hanley  whose worth is irreproachably large. All the while she's stalking the older J.D., Tom keeps after her. After every one of their dates, she tells him she never wants to see him again. She refuses to marry a poor man again. Meanwhile, Loco  becomes acquainted with a grumpy businessman . He is married, but she agrees to go with him to his "lodge" in Maine, mistakenly thinking she's going to meet a bunch of Elks Club members. When she learns the truth, she wants nothing to do with his plans. Unfortunately, she comes down with the measles and has to stay in the lodge until cured. She is nursed back to health with the help of a strapping young man named Eben , who she thinks owns most of the surrounding land. She has no trouble transferring her affections to the handsome outdoorsman and they become engaged. When she finds out that he's just a forest ranger, guarding against fires on "his" land, she is very disappointed, but she loves him and is willing to overlook his financial shortcomings.  The third member of the group, Pola , is extremely nearsighted, but hates to wear her glasses where any man might see her. As she puts it, "Men aren't attentive to girls who wear glasses."  She falls for a phony Arab oil tycoon, not knowing he's really a crooked speculator. Luckily, when she takes a plane to meet him, she misreads an airport sign and ends up on the wrong plane. She sits next to a man, also wearing glasses, who thinks she's "quite a strudel" and encourages her to put hers on. It turns out that he is the mysterious Freddie Denmark; he is on his way to Kansas City to find the crooked accountant who got him into trouble with the IRS. He doesn't have much luck when he tracks the man down , but has much more success with Pola.  Loco, and Pola are reunited with Schatze just before her wedding. She finally managed to overcome J.D.'s qualms about their age difference. Tom shows up and is recognized by the groom. It turns out that Tom is by far the richer of the two men. J.D. has an inkling how things are going to turn out, so he is not too surprised when Schatze finds herself unable to go through with the wedding because she doesn't love him. J.D. leaves graciously and Schatze, against her better judgement, ends up marrying Tom. Afterwards, the three happy couples end up at a greasy spoon, dining on hamburgers. Tom breaks the news to Schatze that he is extremely wealthy, naming all the things he owns, but she thinks he's kidding. He then pays the bill, pulling out an enormous wad of money. The three women faint dead away. The men then drink a toast to their unconscious wives. The premier of the movie was held at the Saban Theatre, the former Fox Wilshire Theatre, in Beverly Hills, California, on November 4, 1953, with the attendance of Humphrey Bogart, Cecil B. DeMille, Robert Mitchum, Lucille Ball, Rock Hudson, Debbie Reynolds, Shelley Winters, Mitzi Gaynor, Jeffrey Hunter, Michael Rennie, among other celebrities.Maxwell Webster is a Montana attorney whose career isn't going as well as wife Julie feels it should be. She gets tipsy at a country club and praises her husband's work in front of colleagues, then urges him to ask boss Edmund Jethrow for a partnership. Instead, he loses his job. They move to Los Angeles for a fresh start. All they can afford is a modest house where a bookie operation seems to be sharing a telephone line. The kind-hearted Max has only $12 to his name but lends it to a nightclub singer, Dorianne Grey. He shares books with young Joyce Laramie as both study for their California bar exam, which Joyce already has failed twice. Misunderstandings develop. A gambler named Eddie wrongly believes Max is the bookie who owes him $800. Joyce helps get Max a job with a collection agency, but it turns out to use questionable business tactics. Julie writes home to Montana, trying to get Max's old job back. He is upset by her lack of confidence in him. Eddie turns up and threatens Max, who slugs him. This leads to mob boss Brick Davis' getting involved and a brawl in Eddie's club, where Dorianne performs. Max is arrested and defends himself in court, over Julie's objections. He wins the case and then Joyce reveals they've both passed the bar. Julie, upset with her own behavior, is delighted to learn that a successful lawyer witnessed Max's work in court and has offered him a job.Webb Garwood, a disgruntled cop, is called to investigate a voyeur by Susan Gilvray. Her husband works nights as an overnight radio personality. The cop falls in love with the young and attractive married woman. Obsessed, he woos her despite her initial reluctance. Garwood finds out about an insurance policy on the husband's life. He dreams up a scheme in which a phantom "prowler" would be a good scapegoat if Susan's husband should happen to die mysteriously. After becoming a prowler himself, Garwood commits the murder and makes it look like self-defense. Susan, who is pregnant, runs away with Garwood to a ghost town named Calico to have the baby without anyone back home knowing. Susan goes into premature labor and Garwood finds a doctor. Garwood intends to kill the doctor to preserve their secret -- Susan was pregnant several months before the marriage to Garwood -- but the doctor escapes with the newborn. Garwood confesses to the murder of Susan's husband and she tells him to get out. He drives away, leaving his wife in Calico alone. On the way out of town, Garwood runs  into his former partner on the police force. While attempting to escape, Garwood sees several police cars coming so he heads for the hills. He refuses to stop and a sheriff's deputy shoots him dead.When the general manager of Gifford Motors dies, company owner Ernest Gifford  invites the three candidates for the position to New York so he can personally evaluate them and their wives. Bill and Katie Baxter  are a loving couple from Kansas City. Elizabeth Burns  is becoming estranged from her driven husband Sidney  because his work is consuming him and undermining his health; she fears a promotion would eventually kill him. Jerry Talbot , who has a sexy, ambitious wife, Carol , rounds out the trio. As time goes by, Katie is shown to be a bit of a klutz, both physically and socially. On the other hand, Elizabeth is both poised and gracious. Despite their differences, she and Katie get along well. When the couples are unexpectedly invited to spend the weekend at the estate of Gifford's sister Evelyn Andrews, , Elizabeth generously helps Katie buy appropriate clothing on a limited budget.Arriving at New York City's Pennsylvania Station after a trip to Cuba, Sheila Bennet , who is smuggling $50,000 worth of diamonds into the country, realizes she's being followed by the authorities. She mails the diamonds to her husband, Matt Krane , instead of carrying them around, and then tries to shake the Treasury agent following her. Feeling sick, Sheila nearly faints on the street, so a cop takes her to a local clinic. While there, she encounters a little girl and inadvertently infects her. Sheila is misdiagnosed as having a common cold, and she leaves and returns home. After the girl is admitted to the hospital, she is found to have smallpox. Meanwhile, Matt has been cheating on Sheila with her sister, Francie , and then attempts to take off without either of them when the diamonds finally arrive through the mail. Unfortunately for him, the fence cannot buy the diamonds because they are too hot. Matt will have to wait for ten days for the cash, so he cannot leave New York. Sheila confronts Francie, who kills herself afterward due to Matt's betrayal of them both. This gives Sheila more reason to get revenge on him. Finding a growing number of smallpox victims, city officials decide to vaccinate everyone in New York to prevent an epidemic, but quickly run out of serum. This causes a panic in the city. Tracking the victims, agents realize that the disease carrier and the diamond smuggler are one and the same. However, an increasingly sick Sheila continues to elude capture. Still unaware that she has smallpox, she returns to the doctor at the clinic to get more medicine. The doctor explains her illness and tries to talk her into turning herself in, but she shoots him in the shoulder and escapes. Sheila eventually catches up with Matt, who tries to escape from the police, but falls from a building ledge to his death. Sheila nearly attempts to drop herself from the ledge, until the doctor tells her the little girl she met had died. Remorseful, Sheila turns herself in and, before succumbing to the disease, provides authorities with a badly needed list of those she contacted.It is a joyous time for everyone in a land known as Malarpuri, when the queen  becomes pregnant. Joyful for everyone except her brother Naganathan , the army commander who has his eye on the throne. So he pays one of the maids to deliver the newborn to him. He then proceeds to hand it over to his henchman Somu, ordering it to be killed. But the queen gives birth to twins and the king , ever suspicious of Naganathan, passes an order that forces Naganathan to take care of this baby. But he decides to raise it as his hand puppet. Meanwhile, Somu desists from killing the baby and instead, raises it in another town. So the twins grow up separately - Parthiban, a good, honest and brave man and Vikraman , a drunkard and womaniser who is dependent on his uncle for everything. Parthiban falls in love with Amuthavalli alias "Amutha" ([[Padmini , the daughter of the minister at the palace and on one of his nocturnal visits, runs into his brother and his mother. The queen finds out that Parthiban was her other son who she did not raise, and she accepts him as her son. She pleads Vikraman also to accept Parthiban as his brother, but Vikraman, his mind poisoned by his uncle, fights Parthiban and defeats him, later clamping an iron mask on his face and locks him up in the dungeons. But through some strategies Parthiban escapes, he reaches Vikraman and forces him into the same prison, thus the same iron mask is put on Vikraman's face this time. Parthiban then puts on Vikraman's clothes and acts as the king, while the guards at the dungeons are unaware that it is Vikraman  who is trapped. Vikraman keeps pleading the guards to release him and tries to make them understand the truth but the guards continue to laugh, thinking that "Parthiban" has gone insane. His last proof of identity, Vikraman writes a message on a nearby plate and after signing it, tosses it out of the window. A guard reads the message and after seeing Vikraman's sign, finds out that he is in prison. The guard releases Vikraman who challenges Parthiban to a final fight. With Parthiban seeming to emerge victorious, Vikraman escapes on a horse and while running through the mountains, he however loses control of the horse and falls off the cliff. With Vikraman finally gone, Parthiban is crowned the new king of Malarpuri and the Uthama Puthiran  of his mother.The setting is San Francisco; Joey Evans is a second-rate singer, a heel known for his womanizing ways , but charming and funny. When Joey meets Linda English, a naive chorus girl, he has stirrings of real feelings. However, that does not stop him from romancing a wealthy, willful, and lonely widow Vera Simpson, in order to convince her to finance his dream, "Chez Joey", a night club of his own. Soon Joey is involved with Vera, each using the other for his/her own somewhat selfish purposes. But Joey's feelings for Linda are growing. Ultimately, Vera jealously demands that Joey fire Linda. When Joey refuses , Vera closes down Chez Joey. Linda visits Vera and agrees to quit in an attempt to keep the club open. Vera then agrees to open the club, and even offers to marry Joey, but Joey rejects Vera. As Joey is leaving, Linda runs after him, offering to go wherever he is headed. After half-hearted refusals, Joey gives in and they walk away together, united.In the late 1890s, boarding school student Selina Peake learns of the death of her father, who has left her penniless as the result of bad business transactions. August Hempel, the father of her best friend Julie, secures her a teaching position in New Holland, a small Dutch farming community outside Chicago. There she rents a room in the home of Klaas Pool, who lives with his unhappy wife Maartje and intelligent but troubled adolescent son Roelf. After discovering the boy has an ear for music, Selina gives Roelf piano lessons and encourages his artistic talents, leading him away from juvenile delinquency. She meets Pervus DeJong and eventually accepts his proposal of marriage, settling into the daily routine of a farmer's wife. The two have a son they christen Dirk, but as he grows older he is nicknamed So Big. Dirk, like Roelf, exhibits signs of artistic abilities, and his mother encourages him, despite her husband's disapproval. When the boy is eight years old, Pervus dies and Selina struggles to run the farm alone. She and Dirk travel to the Chicago Haymarket to sell their produce, but no one there will deal with a woman. Facing financial difficulties, Selina reunites with Julie, now the divorced mother of two, and her father offers to invest in Selina's plan to grow exotic vegetables. Her asparagus is a huge success and she is able to send Dirk to college to study architecture. Following graduation, he finds employment as a draughtsman and continues his relationship with Julie's daughter Paula, a social climber who convinces him to forgo his career in favor of becoming a more immediate financial success. Dirk accepts a job in sales, disappointing his mother so much she no longer calls him So Big. Dirk falls in love with artist Dallas O'Mara and proposes marriage and, although she likes him, she declines his offer, telling him she wants a man whose hands have been roughened by physical labor. Roelf, now a famous composer, arrives in Chicago and reunites with Dallas, whom he had met in Paris. He, Dallas, and Dirk visit Selina, and the two women become friends. Roelf and Dallas leave together, and Dirk bemoans the path his life has taken. His mother tells him it is not too late to pursue his creative dreams and, taking him in her arms, calls him So Big once again.Elizabeth  accompanies her wealthy Texas rancher father  on a visit to Paris, where her mother  lives; while in Paris, she meets Andre , an eager young Frenchman. The father tries to keep her from marrying the Frenchman and thus repeating the mistake he made when he married her mother.Helen Ferguson  is eight months pregnant and unmarried. When she goes to her unfaithful boyfriend Morley for help, all he gives her is a train ticket back to where she came from. The train crashes while Helen is on board, and she is mistaken for another pregnant woman, who was killed on the train. Helen gives birth to her child and is accepted by the Harknesses, the family of the dead woman's husband, Hugh Harkness, who was also killed in the train crash. Since the family had never seen their son's new wife, they believe Helen to be her. The family believes her lapses of memory and uncertain behavior are after effects of the train wreck. With a better life provided for her child, Helen continues the ruse while Bill Harkness , who is the brother of the deceased Hugh, falls in love with her. The story takes a turn for the worse when Helen's ex-boyfriend and the father of her child tracks her down several months after the accident. Morley  was called in to identify the body at the morgue after the tragic train accident, and he figures out through a series of events that Helen is hiding and now married into money. Being the conniving fellow that he is, Morley contacts Helen  and forces her into wedlock. But before his dastardly plan can take full effect, he winds up dead, and the real twist is who exactly the murderer is.Vendor Kutty , a wealthy villager, is jealous and scheming to marry his daughter Lucy  to the richest bachelor of the town. He is, however jealous of Luke , the neighbour, who is kind-hearted village school teacher and has a daughter Chinnamma , of marriageable age. Thankachan  is the rich man of the locality and the prospective groom of Lucy. When he meets an accident, both Chinnamma and Lucy happen to be there and Lucy rushes home to get some cloth for a bandage, the simple hearted Chinnamma tears her only upper cloth and offers first-aid to Thankachan. This simple act makes a bond between the two and Thankachan in turn offers financial help to Chinnamma when her father is taken sersiouly ill. Chinnamma is being engaged to the Beeri-maker, Chakkaravakkal , whose father demands a big dowry. Luke makes herculian effort to raise money but Kutty is determined to see that he is unable to secure the loan. Chinnamma's marriage is fixed for the day when Lucy is to be betrothed to Thankachan. The marriage party is at Luke's door. On the instigation of Kutty, Vakkan's father insists on the promised dowry. But the poor father is unable to produce it. The marriage stands dissolved. In the neighbourhood, Thankachan has come for his betrothal with Lucy. He comes to know of Luke's predicament. On the spur of the moment he decides to marry Chinnamma and the story ends on a happy note.This is a Folklore story of a Gandharva kanya loving a human prince. Jayanth  gets ousted from the kingdom. He meets Suvarna Sundari  who comes to earth on every Kaarteeka Pournami day. They love each other. Lord Indra comes to know about their love and curses Suvarna Sundari. As a result Jayanth forgets her. She loses her child near the river. How the two protagonists reunite forms the story.Centering on themes of morality, passion, lust and jealousy this romantic drama is the story of a righteous man who disgraces his family and his reputation when he is seduced by a pretty young woman.This fantasy tale tells of Totò who, found in a cabbage patch, is adopted by Lolotta, a wise and kind old woman. When Lolotta dies he moves to an orphanage. At eighteen Totò  leaves the orphanage and ends up in a shantytown squatter colony on the outskirts of Milan. Totò's organizational ability learned at the orphanage and his simple kindness and optimistic outlook acquired from Lolotta bring structure to the colony and a sense of happiness and well being among the dispossessed who live there. Totò is given a magic dove by the ghost of Lolotta and he uses its powers to grant wishes to those who ask. Eventually the dove is taken back by two angels who object to a mortal using its magic powers. When oil is found in the shantytown capitalists acquire it and the squatters are taken away ostensibly to prison. On the way, however, the dove is returned to Totò and his wish for the freedom of his friends is granted. In a wonderful scene they fly away on broomsticks borrowed from the street sweepers in Milan's central square and circle around the Cathedral and then away into the sky, possibly to heaven. In a sense Totò is a Christ-like figure whose innate goodness and miraculous powers are corrupted by the human failings of the dispossessed, especially their simple-minded greed for clothes and money.Bill has a unusual dilemma when he returns home from the war in Korea, where he'd been a pilot. Out of pride, he wants to provide the sole support for Doris and their family, but Doris isn't sure what to do because she has just inherited a fortune.Diner waitress Bonnie Parker is just as tired of her job in 1932 Texas as she is of customers like Guy Darrow, who try too hard to make her acquaintance. When she goes too far, fending off Guy with hot oil, Bonnie is fired. With her husband Duke Jefferson still in prison and no means of support, Bonnie teams up with Guy on a series of small holdups. She also kills a cop who's chasing them, which leads to Tom Steel of the Texas Rangers being assigned to the case. Guy's incarcerated cousin Chuck is paroled in late 1933, so Bonnie and the Darrows travel north to Missouri and Iowa for more robberies. Bonnie thinks it's time to stop thinking small and aim for banks instead of gas stations and such. She also decides the gang should bust Duke out of the pen. Their daring breakout succeeds, but Chuck is shot. Now that her husband's in charge, the trio begins making some big scores and become America's most wanted criminals. But when a big scheme by Bonnie to rob an armored truck backfires, the guards locking themselves inside a vehicle that's bulletproof, things continue to go wrong when Guy accidentally kills Duke. On the lam, Bonnie decides it's time to hide out in Louisiana, but it's only a matter of time before Steel and the Rangers find them. Bonnie and Guy go down in a hail of bullets.Vittorio De Sica plays the middle-aged marshal Antonio Carotenuto of the Carabinieri in a remote fictional Italian mountain village named Sagliena . He's anxious to marry, and selects young Maria De Ritis  as his bride; but she is already in love with De Sica's shy subordinate Pietro Stelluti . Mistaking her headstrong behavior as promiscuity, De Sica makes advances towards her, but she spurns him. Forsaking the girl to the arms of Risso, De Sica decides to settle for village midwife Annarella Mirziano . Things become more complicated when Annarella, the midwife, starts demonstrating her love to Antonio. She is hiding a secret and the Marshal soon will be in a difficult situation.The Egyptian tells the story of Sinuhe, a struggling physician in 18th dynasty Egypt  who is thrown by chance into contact with the pharaoh Akhnaton. He rises to and falls from great prosperity, wanders the world, and becomes increasingly drawn towards a new religion spreading throughout Egypt. His companions throughout are his lover, a shy tavern maid named Merit, and his corrupt but likable servant Kaptah. While out lion hunting with his sturdy friend Horemheb, Sinuhe discovers Egypt's newly ascendant pharaoh Akhnaton, who has sought the solitude of the desert in the midst of a religious epiphany. While praying the ruler is stricken with an epileptic seizure, with which Sinhue is able to help him. The grateful Akhnaton makes his savior court physician and gives Horemheb a post in the Royal Guard, a career previously denied to him by low birth. His new eminence gives Sinuhe an inside look at Akhnaton's reign, which is made extraordinary by the ruler's devotion to a new religion that he feels has been divinely revealed to him. This faith rejects Egypt's traditional gods in favor of monotheistic worship of the sun, referred to as the Aten. Akhnaton intends to promote Aten-worship throughout Egypt, which earns him the hatred of the country's corrupt and politically active traditional priesthood. Life in court does not prove to be good for Sinuhe; it drags him away from his previous ambition of helping the poor, and is the means of his falling obsessively in love with a courtesan named Nefer. He squanders all of his and his parents' property in order to buy her gifts, only to have her reject him nonetheless. Returning dejectedly home, Sinuhe learns that his parents have committed suicide over his shameful behavior. He has their bodies embalmed so that they can pass on to the afterlife, and, having no way to pay for the service, works off his debts in the embalming house. Lacking a tomb in which to put his parents' mummies, Sinuhe buries them in the sand amid the lavish funerary complexes of the Valley of the Kings. Merit finds him there and warns him that Akhnaton has condemned him to death; one of the pharaoh's daughters fell ill and died while Sinuhe was working as an embalmer, and the tragedy is being blamed on his desertion of the court. Merit urges Sinuhe to flee Egypt and rebuild his career elsewhere, and the two of them share one night of passion before he takes ship out of the country. For the next ten years Sinuhe and Kaptah wander the known world, where their superior Egyptian medical training gives them an excellent reputation as healers. Sinuhe finally saves enough money from his fees to return home; he buys his way back into the favor of the court with a precious piece of military intelligence he learned abroad, informing Horemheb  that the barbarian Hittites plan to attack the country with superior iron weapons. Akhnaton is in any case ready to forgive Sinuhe, according to his religion's doctrine of mercy and pacifism. These qualities have made Aten-worship extremely popular amid the common people, including Merit with whom Sinuhe is reunited. He finds that she bore him a son named Thoth , who shares his father's interest in medicine. Meanwhile the priests of the old gods have been fomenting hate crimes against the Aten's devotees, and now urge Sinuhe to help them kill Akhnaton and put Horemheb on the throne instead. The physician is privately given extra inducement by the princess Baketamun; she reveals that he is actually the son of the previous pharaoh by a concubine, discarded at birth because of the jealousy of the old queen and raised by foster parents. The princess now suggests that Sinuhe could poison both Akhnaton and Horemheb and rule Egypt himself . Sinuhe is still reluctant to perform this evil deed until the Egyptian army mounts a full attack on worshipers of the Aten. Kaptah manages to smuggle Thoth out the country, but Merit is killed while seeking refuge at the new god's altar. In his grief Sinuhe blames Akhnaton for the whole mess and administers poison to him at their next meeting. The pharaoh realizes what has been done, but accepts his fate. He still believes his faith was true, but that he has understood it imperfectly; future generations will be able to spread the same faith better than he. Sinuhe allows Horemheb to become pharaoh, but the warlord is still indignant that his old friend had considered murdering him. He banishes Sinuhe to the shores of the Red Sea; the physician grows old in solitude, still inspired by the glimpse of another world he has been afforded through Akhnaton. The film concludes with a caption reading, "These things happened thirteen centuries before the birth of Jesus Christ".A quiet gardener living in Los Angeles, California picks up blond women and is murdering them with garden shears. The police attempt to track him down but the man continues to kill. The killer lives in a shack on a hill overlooking Los Angeles .In the 1930s, boxer Barney Ross wins the welterweight championship, then meets chorus girl Cathy Holland as he celebrates. Sam Pian, his trainer, learns that Barney placed a $10,000 bet on himself to win the fight. Cathy, a single mom of a young girl, Noreen, gets to know Barney, but is unaware of his gambling habit. When he loses to Henry Armstrong, he owes thousands to a bookie named Big Ralph and is forced to work in Ralph's bar to pay off the debt. Barney joins the Marines when war breaks out. He gets Cathy to marry him before leaving for the South Pacific, where, at 33, his heroism at Guadacanal saves another soldier's life and earns Barney a medal, the Silver Star. But he also contracts malaria, for which a medic prescribes morphine. Back home in Chicago, he is given a job with a public-relations firm by the father of the man whose life he saved. Barney is now addicted to morphine, however, and incurs a huge debt to Rico, a drug pusher. Cathy catches her desperate husband breaking into Noreen's piggy bank, so she moves out. Barney becomes suicidal. But when his wife returns to inform him that Rico has been arrested, Barney vows to beat his addiction if it is the last thing he does. He checks into a hospital in Kentucky while the whole country becomes aware of his plight. Four months later, Barney is permitted to leave, rejoin his family and resume his life.Rakshas King Ravana decides to invade Amaravathi, the capital of the heavenly kingdom of Indra. Scared of Ravana's plans, Indra asks Narada for help. Narada informs Indra that Ravana's strength comes from the worship performed by Kaikasi, Ravana's mother. He then suggests that Indra sabotage Ravana's mother's worship of saikatha lingam, a sand sculpture representation of Lord Siva. Ravana decides to perform penance and bring Lord Siva's Atma Lingam for his mother to worship. Hearing of Ravana's plans from Narada, Goddess Parvathi, Lord Siva's consort, appeals to Lord Vishnu. When Lord Siva appears to Ravana to grant his wish, Lord Vishnu manipulates Ravana's mind and makes him wish for Goddess Parvathi. As Ravana proceeds home with Goddess Parvathi, Narada meets him midway and tells him that his companion is fake Parvathi. Dejected by the subterfuge, Ravana returns Goddess Parvathi to Lord Siva. During his return journey, he meets Mandodari, the young princess of Pathala, and believing her to be the real Goddess Parvathi, marries her. Eventually, he realizes what happened and appeals to Lord Siva for forgiveness by presenting his severed head. Lord Siva presents Ravana with Atma Lingam and warns him that, if the Atma Lingam ever touches the earth, it can never be moved again. Narada instigates Lord Vinayaka to trick Ravana into grounding the Atma Lingam at what later became known as Gokarna Kshethram in Karnataka.The Stooges reminisce about their wartime romances in Europe. After they finish their tales, they discover that Joe's girl Fifi , whom he left behind in Paris, has moved in next door. The only problem is that she is now married to a very jealous and unappreciative husband .Typical Stooge antics result in ruining Fifi's dress, and dressing her in a pair of pajamas is an invitation for her husband to enter the scene. The husband turns out to be a real cad, and when Fifi overhears him tell about his plans to find a new wife, she clobbers him and goes back to Joe.The story of Marvi and Umar is a popular Sindhi folk tale, on which the poet Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai based one of the surs of his Risalo. Umar , king of Umarkot, is looking for a bride but finds none to his liking. Phog  mentions the unmatchable beauty of Marvi , a village girl from Malir whom he loves but who is engaged to a fellow villager, Khet. Umar decides to check out Marvi for himself and immediately falls under her spell. After unsuccessfully asking for her hand from her father, he resolves to abduct her. Confined in Umar's palace, Marvi stubbornly refuses to become his wife, faithful to her pledge to Khet. Turning down silks and jewelry, she longs for her people, the Marus. When Marvi seems about to surrender, having lost hope of being rescued, a wet-nurse reveals that they are milk siblings, thus ruling out any possibility of marriage between them. Umar then hands Marvi back to her people, but Khet and the Marus suspect her chastity. Upon hearing the news, Umar goes for Malir to defend Marvi's honor. Both have to undergo a trial to prove their innocence by walking through a fire holding a red-hot iron rod. Umar and Marvi come out of the pyre unhurt. In the end, Umar accepts his mistake and blesses Marvi and Khet as they finally marry.The movie opens with a young woman fending off an attempted rape. In the process the would-be rapist accidentally falls off a cliff to his death. Circumstantial evidence places 16-year-old delinquent Silver  at the scene and she is sent to Girls Town, a rehabilitation village run by a group of nuns. There she lives with Serafina  and some tough chicks. Trouble and misunderstandings ensue. Troublemaker Fred  saw the cliff incident from a distance and realizes it was actually Silver's sister, Mary Lee , who was there. Fred blackmails Mary Lee into being his partner in deadly "hands-off drag racing," then prepares to take her to Tijuana to sell her into the slave trade. Silver finally wins the respect of her Girls Town friends, but can they rescue Mary Lee? A side plot involves Serafina swooning over famous singer Jimmy . During the film he sings "Lonely Boy", "It's Time to Cry", "Girls Town Blues", and "Ave Maria". A scene set in a night club features The Platters singing "Wish It Were Me".Following an argument with a work superior, furniture designer Jim Fletcher quits his job in a fit of pique. He decides that England has nothing to offer him and the future for his family is in Australia. He eagerly sets about making emigration plans, and despite the fact that his wife and family are less than enthusiastic about moving to the other side of the world, he disregards their reservations and presses ahead. Practical and bureaucratic hitches continually threaten to derail the project. Jim must also deal with the opposition of his in-laws, finds himself missing his job, and starts to have doubts himself about the wisdom of the move. However the snags and pitfalls are finally sorted out and a firm departure date is set. Then two days before they are due to leave, the Fletchers' daughter meets, and instantly falls in love with, her ideal man. A good deal of heart-searching ensues before the Fletchers decide whether or not to go ahead with emigration.London insurance investigator Oliver Branwell goes to Louis Manor to probe a recent fire. Tracey Moreton lives there with his wife Sarah and his mother. He introduces them to Oliver, as well as his neighbor and cousin, Clive, and describes a valuable painting that was lost in the blaze. Tracey isn't aware that Sarah and Oliver were once romantically involved. Months later, on another case, Oliver meets a woman, Vere Litchen, who has a painting that appears to be the one allegedly destroyed. The next time he and Sarah speak, she asks questions about the best way to start a fire. When he later sneaks into the manor, Oliver finds the dead body of Tracey as well as flames that are about to engulf the house. Sarah is beneficiary of her husband's insurance policy but Oliver remains suspicious of her involvement. Vere's rich fiance, Croft, who gave her the painting, is shown a photo of Sarah and denies she was the woman who sold it to him. A relieved Oliver proposes to Sarah and they leave on a honeymoon. Now the police begin to consider him a suspect. Blackmailed by a shadowy figure, Oliver and Sarah follow him and discover that Clive was the scheme's mastermind. And that the dead man's mother, Mrs. Moreton, had accidentally caused Tracey's death, believing that her son was about to start a second fire.Directed by Roger Vadim as a modern  adaptation of the once scandalous French novel, it pits one woman's desire to manipulate others against the power of real love. Jeanne Moreau plays Juliette de Merteuil, a conniving socialite who manipulates the Vicomte de Valmont  into meeting and seducing Marianne . Valmont and Marianne fall in love much to his dismay and to the delight of Merteuil. Shot in black and white in the style of the French New Wave  Vadim's whirlwind portrayal of Merteuil and Valmont's deceitful dealings brings together a clash of late 1950s society and 18th-century morality.A young girl's loyalty to the Communist Party is tested in Prague when she falls in love with an attache who has just arrived from the United States.A village in Coimbatore district. Sengodan is a naïve good-hearted farmer, who knows no other God other than his mother Angamma. Staying back in the hamlet and tilling his land, he sends his beloved sister Thangam to the college in the town. Angamma’s brother is an avaricious landowner in the same village. The two families are not in speaking terms ever since Angamma’s husband ran away unable to meet the unreasonable demands of his brother-in-law after having borrowed some money from him. Kannan, the villain’s son, however does not inherit his father’s wily characteristics. Studying in the same college, Kannan and Thangam fall in love with each other. The storm which breaks out when the warring families become aware of their love and the how the lovers unite finally fill rest of the reels. In the midst of these chaotic proceedings there is also another love story between the brave and mischievous belle Rangamma and the shy Sengodan.Magdi  and Dr. Fouad  meet Souad  and her daughter Mona . Souad, who suffers from poverty, decides to introduce her daughter to Magdi, a rich man, hoping that he can fall in love with her beautiful daughter and ask to marry her in order to save her from poverty. Magid does fall in love with Mona and she falls for him too. The lovers decide to marry each other. Before te marriage, Magdi reveals a personal secret to her mother. Magdi tells her that an accident he experienced left him with sexual dysfunction. Mona's mother, however, accepts this and conceals it from Mona.{{cite web | url Al-Zawjah al-Azra | accessdate Faten Hamama's official website | language  Adab/>Marv Grant is a high school student who lives with his deadbeat, alcoholic father. At school he begins dating the attractive Betty Alexander , who eventually manipulates him into writing her English class term paper for her. Marv does this, but the subterfuge is easily uncovered by the professor. Betty fails the class, and the professor withdraws his recommendation from Marv's college application, without which Marv has no chance of earning a scholarship. In anger, Betty throws Marv over and returns to her old boyfriend, Vince, revealing that she had only been using Marv from the beginning. At his part-time job at the docks, Marv overhears his boss plotting a drug transaction worth $1 million cash. The money will be kept in the office safe prior to the deal. In despair, Marv plots to steal the money with the help of safecracker Harry March and another accomplice, and he secures $550,000 of the take for himself. He tells Betty about the pending robbery to entice her to marry him, and she apparently accedes. In reality she secretively tasks her boyfriend, Vince, to steal the money from Marv. Marv and his associates steal the money, but Vince and two accomplices intervene. Vince shoots one of Marv's unarmed associates, and he is horrified. When Betty arrives on the scene soon afterwards, Vince accuses her of making him do this, and he kills her, too. Vince's accomplices flee, but the police soon arrive. Marv is arrested and the money falls into the water, being lost.Should Katie , marry for love or money? Nurse Katie is pursued by Tony, a wealthy but irresponsible sportsman, and Jeff, a handsome, if conventional, doctor. Tony's ex-wife complicates matters.A flashback shows how Ellen met George in a naval hospital during World War II while she was dating his friend, Lieutenant Ranney Grahame , a young military doctor whose busy schedule left little time for her. George was a pilot and Ellen swiftly fell in love with him, although the flashback strongly hints he had some capacity for arrogance and selfishness. Nevertheless, they soon married and after the war wound up in a leafy suburban Los Angeles neighbourhood. Unhappily, George is now confined to his bed with heart problems, there is a heat wave and Ellen is spending most her time caring for him. George's doctor is their old friend Ranney, with whom George thinks his wife is having an affair. In response, Ranney suggests George may need psychological help. After Ellen tells her bedridden husband she dreams of having children, he becomes angry. Meanwhile George has written a letter to the district attorney in which he claims his wife and best friend are killing him with overdoses of medicine for his heart. A little neighbour boy dressed as a movie cowboy and warding cap pistols  befriends the childless Ellen, who gives him cookies. He hands her a toy  television set and asks Ellen to give it to George, which she does whilst serving her husband lunch in bed. He tells her an unsettling story about how as a child he had beaten a neighbour boy with a rake until he drew blood. Thinking the thick letter has something to do with insurance, Ellen gives it to the postman , who sees George in the upstairs bedroom window. When Ellen rushes up to find out why he has gotten out of bed, George lets her know what the letter says and who it is addressed to. George pulls a gun and is about to kill her when he drops dead on the bed. In her narration she describes George's death as "one of those awful dreams." Ellen panics over the letter and as noted by a reviewer over 50 years later, throughout the film's second half seems "much more concerned with absolving herself from the blame of his death than missing her spouse."<ref nameOctober 2012}}Set in medieval England, the plot nominally concerns the struggle to restore the rightful heir, a baby, to the throne after the King and all his family have been disposed of. Kaye plays Hubert Hawkins, an ex-carnival entertainer who becomes minstrel to the Black Fox, a Robin Hood-type character , who actually makes only a few minor appearances in the film. The usurping King Roderick wishes his daughter, Princess Gwendolyn, to marry his neighbor, Sir Griswold of MacElwain, to enlist Griswold's aid against the band of rebels headed by the Black Fox. Princess Gwendolyn, however, refuses to marry Griswold, and declares that she will wed only for love, since her personal maid Griselda, who is also a witch, has predicted that a true lover will come to the castle to court her. The marriage plan also does not sit well with Lord Ravenhurst, one of Roderick's advisors, who fears that Grisworld's presence may lose him his privileged position with the king. Hawkins, whose usual task is to reveal the royal infant's distinct birthmark  to prospective rebel recruits, is charged with the task of carrying the child across the country to safety when Roderick's men threaten to discover the rebels. Disguised as an old man, he travels with Maid Jean , one of the Fox's lieutenants posing as his granddaughter, with whom he is in love and who has also fallen for him. They encounter the King's new Jester "Giacomo, 'King of Jesters and Jester of Kings'"  on his way to the castle and knock him out, and Hawkins impersonates him, hoping to gain entry to the King's castle. The plan is to steal the key to a secret passage into the castle, through which the Black Fox could then attack. Hawkins is, however, unaware that the jester he is impersonating is also a famous assassin whom Lord Ravenhurst plans to employ against his rivals. Maid Jean, proceeding alone with the infant king, is captured by the King's men, who have been sent to round up pretty young girls to decorate the tournament. At the castle, she entrusts the infant into the care of an infiltrator working as an ostler before she is taken away. Matters become more complicated when Griselda hypnotizes Hawkins to avoid death by her princess' hands for her as yet unfulfilled promises; in his befuddled state, Hawkins inadvertently introduces Jean to the king, who takes a fancy to her, and gets the key lost, Gwendolyn infatuated with him, and Ravenhurst entrusting him with taking out his rivals, only to have his memory erased by Griselda afterwards. She also kills Ravenhurst's competitors Brockhurst, Finsdale and Pertwee according to her own agenda. During the evening banquet, Sir Griswold arrives to solidify his alliance with the king. However, Gwendolyn openly declares her love for the jester, and the enraged King orders Hawkins' death. Griswold, insulted, announces that, if "Giacomo" were a knight rather than a common clown, he would challenge him to mortal combat. Meanwhile, Ravenhurst and his fellows have learned that Hawkins is an impostor, but wrongfully assume that he is the Black Fox himself; they also find out that Maid Jean is one of the rebels and that the royal heir is in the castle. Still intent on preventing the alliance, Ravenhurst counsels the King that he can get rid of the jester by making him a knight, who would then have to fight Sir Griswold. Although the requirements for Knighthood are usually very rigorous, the King arranges for Hawkins to pass them rapidly. Jean uses her confidence with the king to steal back the key and send it to her band, although she also tries to save Hawkins by asking the Black Fox to substitute for him in the joust. But just before the rebels can use the passage, it collapses, leaving only a small crawlspace. The Black Fox decides to summon Hawkins' friends, a troupe of acrobatic dwarves he had met earlier, from the carnival and sends them through the passage for a diversionary attack while the rest of the rebels assault the castle from the outside. Back in the castle, Hawkins becomes a knight, and Griswold immediately challenges him to a joust to the death. Griselda, under Gwendolyn's orders to protect Hawkins, tries poisoning one of the drinks to be used for the toast immediately before the joust, but through one of his men Griswold also learns of the poison, and after a quarrel between the two combatants about the unpoisoned drink the toast is cancelled. Against all odds, Hawkins wins the joust because his armor was incidentally magnetized by a lightning bolt, but he refuses to deliver the coup de grâce, sparing Griswold's life. As Griswold leaves with his soldiers, Ravenhurst denounces Hawkins and Maid Jean to the King. Before the King can pass judgement upon them, Hawkins's friends, who have secretly entered the court through the secret passage, rescue him and capture the castle from the King's soldiers. During this battle, Ravenhurst attacks Hawkins with a sword. Griselda hastily enchants Hawkins again, giving him expert prowess in fencing - some of the time. Ravenhurst is finally hurled out of the castle into the sea via catapult. Griswold returns to defend the King, but Hawkins reveals the infant king's birthmark to him and to his men. The former enemies all pledge allegiance to the true king, Griswold and Gwendolyn become enamored with each other, and Hawkins leads everyone in one last chorus of "Life could not better be".Chuck Regan , a young American film producer travels to Mexico, where he takes up bullfighting to impress a local beauty, Anita de la Vega . Manolo Estrada , an aging matador, reluctantly agrees to teach the brash, self-centered Regan.Following the death of her newborn baby, war widow LouLou Mason accepts a temporary two-week assignment as nursemaid to the infant son of corset manufacturer Frederick K. Begley, who lost his wife in childbirth. She ingratiates herself with the family and eventually becomes a permanent fixture. When she declines Frederick's proposal, he marries his secretary Alicia Torgersen, who fires LouLou following her honeymoon. LouLou finds employment with wealthy Henry and Fleur Palfrey and begins to care for baby Robbie. Older son Harrison is expelled from boarding school due to poor grades and bad behavior and returns home with his tutor, Jerry Kean. When Jerry is offered a job in Beirut, he impulsively proposes to LouLou, who accepts. While waiting for his fiancée to pack, Jerry speaks to Fleur, who warns him about marrying a woman he barely knows. Having second thoughts, he suggests he and LouLou wait a few months before marrying, and she remains with the Palfreys. Years pass, and LouLou is nursemaid to Stephanie, the twelve-year-old daughter of fading musical actress Annie Rawlins. When Annie is delayed at an audition and misses Stephanie's confirmation, the girl tells her friends LouLou is her mother. Realizing the girl has become too attached to her, Loulou decides to find work elsewhere. Just prior to the start of World War II, LouLou accepts a job with Helen and Hugh Williams. Hugh joins the military and is injured in battle, prompting his wife to join him in England. Two years pass, and the widowed Helen, who still has not returned home, stops sending money to support her son Tony. LouLou accepts responsibility for the boy and raises him as her own. Years later, when Helen notifies her she is returning with her new husband, LouLou flees to Florida with Tony, but is arrested and charged with kidnapping. Although he is sympathetic to LouLou's situation, the district attorney is compelled by law to return Tony to Helen. Now too old to be entrusted with the care of a baby, LouLou accepts a janitorial job in an elementary school in order to be close to children. When she visits an ophthalmologist, she discovers he is Robbie Palfrey, the now adult son of her former employees. Robbie invites her to his home for dinner the following week and arranges for all the children for whom she cared to be there with their spouses. As LouLou catches up with her former charges, Robbie announces he wants her to be the nanny for his own children.The film tells a fictionalized version of the Pilgrims' voyage across the Atlantic Ocean to North America aboard the Mayflower. During the long sea voyage, Capt. Christopher Jones  falls in love with Dorothy Bradford , the wife of William Bradford . The love triangle is resolved in a tragic way at the film's conclusion. Ship's carpenter John Alden  -- said to be the first person to step foot on Plymouth Rock in 1620 -- catches the eye of Priscilla Mullins , one of the young Pilgrims following William Bradford. Alden ultimately wins Priscilla in another, if subtler, triangle with Miles Standish . Lloyd Bridges provides comic relief as the first-mate Coppin, and child star Tommy Ivo gives a touching performance as young William Button, the only passenger to die on the actual voyage across the storm-swept Atlantic, who, according to this film, wanted to be the first to sight land and to become a king in the New World. “I’m going to be the first to see land. Keep me eye peeled, I will. Then I’ll be the first. It’ll be like the Garden of Eden and I’m going to be the first to see it”.Sydney Carton, a drunken English lawyer, discovers that Charles Darnay, a man he once defended, is a French aristocrat trying to escape the French Revolution. While he envies the man over the love of a woman, Lucie Manette, his conscience is pricked and he resolves to help him escape the guillotine.In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, small-town lawyer Paul Biegler , a former district attorney who lost his re-election bid, spends most of his time fishing, playing the piano and hanging out with his alcoholic friend and colleague Parnell McCarthy  and sardonic secretary Maida Rutledge . One day Biegler is contacted by Laura Manion , wife of the loutish US Army Lieutenant Frederick "Manny" Manion , who has been arrested for the first degree murder of innkeeper Barney Quill. Manion does not deny the murder, but claims that his wife was raped by Quill. Even with such a motivation, it would be difficult to get Manion cleared of murder, so Biegler pushes him into a position where he claims to have no memory of the event, thus giving them a chance of winning his freedom with a defense of irresistible impulse &mdash; a version of a temporary insanity defense. As he sets about preparing his case, Biegler catches Laura Manion flirting with other army officers during a roadhouse party. He has to practically order her to stay away from "men, juke joints, booze, and pinball machines" and wear a girdle in order to play the part of a "meek little housewife" rather than that of a happy-go-lucky party girl. She also agrees to give up her tight-fitting clothes and wears a formal dress, glasses, a hat and a woman's suit in court. Biegler's folksy speech and laid-back demeanor hide a sharp legal mind and a propensity for courtroom theatrics that has the judge busy keeping things under control. However, the case for the defense does not go well, especially since the local D.A.  is assisted by a high-powered big city prosecutor named Claude Dancer . Furthermore, the prosecution goes all the way to block any mention of Manion's motive for killing Quill, i.e. the raping of Laura. Biegler eventually manages to get the rape issue into the record and Judge Weaver  agrees to allow the matter to be part of the deliberations. However, Dancer's cross-examination of Laura effectively portrays her as a woman who was not satisfied with her marriage and openly flirted with other men, including the one she claimed raped her. A doctor casts doubt on whether she was raped or not, though Biegler questions the method he used to obtain the results, and psychiatrists give conflicting testimony to Manion's state of mind when he killed Quill. Furthermore it comes out that even Lt. Manion doubted his wife, as Laura, a Catholic, had to swear on a rosary to persuade her husband that the sex with Quill was indeed non-consensual. Quill's inn is due to be inherited by Mary Pilant , a mysterious Canadian who is suspected of being his mistress. Inquiries by Biegler's partner Parnell McCarthy, however, reveal that she is in fact Quill's daughter, but is anxious to keep this secret since she was born out of wedlock. Biegler, who is losing the case, tries to persuade her that Al Paquette , a bartender who witnessed the murder, knows that Quill raped Laura but is covering this up, either out of love for Mary or loyalty to his late friend. Through Mary, Biegler tries to persuade Paquette to testify for the defense on these grounds but he refuses. Annoyed, Biegler leaves saying: "I'll leave a pass for you and Al at the trial. You might like to watch Lt. Manion get convicted." Mary does actually attend the final day of the trial when the issue is raised about the panties that Laura was wearing on the night of the murder. These panties were never found at the spot she claims the rape took place. Mary, who was unaware of this, later returns to testify that she found the panties in the inn's laundry room, presuming that Quill dropped them down the laundry chute when he returned home. Dancer insistently quizzes her that she was lying and that Quill was her lover. She shocks the court and torpedoes Dancer by stating that Quill was her father. Biegler has played heavily on the issue that he is "just a humble country lawyer" facing a "brilliant prosecutor from the big city of Lansing", a factor which has played well with the jury. After the closing speeches, however, he privately admits that Dancer delivered the "best summary I've ever heard in a courtroom". It is to no avail, however: Manion is found "not guilty by reason of insanity". The next day Biegler and McCarthy go to see the Manions at their trailer park home in order to collect their fee only to find the trailer missing. A note left by Manion tells Biegler that he was "seized by an irresistible impulse" &mdash; the defense used by Biegler during the trial. Evidence left lying around indicates that Manion was actually a heavy drinker who beat Laura before they left. This might indicate that Laura's sexual encounter with Quill was consensual  and that Manion killed Quill out of drunken jealousy; or that Laura was raped but that Manion killed Quill in a drunken rage and not due to irresistible impulse. Biegler suggests to McCarthy that they solicit Mary Pilant to administer Barney Quill's estate, quipping that it would be "poetic justice."The ice-cold diva Paula ruthlessly exploits the guys she dates. While blackmailing the married Don with a recent one-night-stand, she has a secret affair with Henry, who works as researcher for the weekly authentic TV show Crime of the Week", which Don writes for. When Henry fails to help her to a role, she insults him deadly... and ends up dead herself. Now Don desperately tries to hide his traces, but Henry sabotages his efforts and suggests he write the unsolved murder case for next week's show."{{cite web}}The story concerns a young mentally disturbed man, Martin Lynn , who goes on a rampage after his sick mother dies. One of the man's biggest beefs is with the Catholic Church who, in addition to slighting him when his mother needed a priest, once refused to bury his father years earlier because he committed suicide. The man, blaming the environment he lives in, goes on a rampage taking revenge on his cheap boss, a mortician and a priest, Father Kirkman , who refuses to give his poor mother a big funeral. He begins his rampage by killing the hard-line Catholic priest, who slighted him, by beating him with a heavy crucifix. Later, another young priest, Father Roth , suspects the young man, now arrested for another crime, for the killing.Roseanne Rogers  trudges from place to place, searching for another living human being. A newspaper headline reports a scientist's warning that detonating a new type of atomic bomb may cause humanity's extinction. She eventually makes her way to her aunt's isolated hillside house and faints when she finds Michael ([[William Phipps  already living there. At first too numb to speak, she is slow to recover. She resists Michael's attempt to become intimate, revealing that she is married and pregnant. Two more survivors arrive, attracted by the smoking chimney. Oliver P. Barnstaple  is an elderly bank clerk who is in denial; he believes he is simply on vacation. He has been taken care of by Charles , a good-natured African American. They survived because they were accidentally locked in a bank vault when the disaster occurred. Roseanne was in a hospital's lead-lined X-ray room, while Michael was in an elevator in the Empire State Building. Barnstaple sickens, but seems to recover and insists on going to the beach. There, they drag a man out of the water. Eric , a mountain climber, was stranded on Mount Everest by a blizzard during the disaster. He was flying back to America when his plane ran out of gas just short of land. Meanwhile, Barnstaple dies peacefully. The newcomer brings discord to the little community. Eric theorizes that they lived because they were somehow immune to the radiation. He wants to find and gather together other survivors. However, Michael is skeptical and warns that the radiation is the most intense in the cities Eric wants to search. Eric reveals himself to be a racist; he can barely stand living with Charles. When Charles objects, they fight, stopping only when Roseanne goes into labor. She gives birth to a boy, delivered by Michael. Afterwards, while the others work to make a better life, Eric goes off by himself. Eric deliberately drives their jeep through the group's cultivated field, destroying part of their crops. Michael orders Eric to leave, but Eric shows he has a pistol and announces that he will leave when he is ready to. One night, Eric tells Roseanne that he is going to the city. Needing to discover her husband's fate, Roseanne agrees to go with him, as he had hoped. Eric insists that she not tell Michael. However, after stealing supplies, Eric is stopped by a suspicious Charles. As they struggle, Eric stabs Charles in the back, killing him. Once they reach the city, he begins looting, while she goes to her husband's office, then to the hospital waiting room. There she discovers her husband's skeleton. When Rosanne wants to return to the group, Eric refuses to let her go. They struggle and his shirt is torn open, revealing radiation poisoning. In despair, he runs away. She begins the long walk back, but her baby dies along the way. Michael finds her and takes her home. When he starts farming, she joins him.Uncouth tycoon Harry Brock  goes to Washington, D.C. with his brassy mistress, Emma 'Billie' Dawn , and his crooked lawyer, Jim Devery , to "influence" a politician or two. The lawyer also presses Harry to marry Billie on the grounds that a wife cannot testify against her husband. Harry becomes disgusted with Billie's ignorance and lack of manners  and hires a tutor for her, journalist Paul Verrall . Blossoming under Paul's encouragement, Billie turns out to be much smarter than anybody knew and begins thinking for herself. The two fall in love. Meanwhile, Devery had persuaded Harry to sign over many of his assets to Billie to hide them from the government. When Harry needs to get them back, he comes into conflict with Billie's new-found independence. She and Paul use her leverage to escape from Harry's domination; she promises to give him back his property little by little as long as he leaves them alone. Billie and Paul marry.Socialite Lois Frazer wants a divorce from her wealthy husband, but he's not ready to let her go so easy. Suspecting that he intends to murder her, she calls Lieutenant Ed Cullen, with whom she's been having an affair, in an effort to save herself from her husband's wrath. When Ed arrives someone dies, but it's not Lois. With his lover's husband shot dead, Ed finds himself the ironic and dangerous position of being assigned a case that no one knows he actually witnessed. In addition to trying to control the investigation, Ed also has the misfortune of having his own younger brother, a new detective on the force, by his side every step of the way, eager to prove himself.  {{Expand section}}The Stooges receive news that their roommate and pal Bill ([[Frank Mitchell  is getting married. They will soon be moving out of the house so that Bill's new lover can move in. As a favor of gratitude, the Stooges decide to install Bill's brand new television antenna. The project goes into chaos, however, when they eventually destroy the home. When Bill's new wife  comes home to see the mess, all hell breaks loose, and Bill is single as quickly as he had gotten married. In a fit of anger, Bill takes out his aggression on his roommates, and life as they knew it is once again restored.Marie  is a successful but emotionally distant prima ballerina in her late twenties. During a problem-filled dress rehearsal day for a production of the ballet Swan Lake she is unexpectedly sent the diary of her first love; a college-boy called Henrik  whom she met and fell in love with while visiting her Aunt Elizabeth and Uncle Erland's house on a summer vacation thirteen years before. With the cancellation of the dress rehearsal until the evening Marie takes a boat across to the island where she conducted her relationship with Henrik and remembers their playful and carefree relationship. Three days before the end of the summer when Henrik is to return to college and Marie to the theatre, Henrik falls and suffers injuries that result in his death after diving from a cliff face. Her Uncle Erland, not actually her relation but a friend and admirer of Marie's mother and now similarly smitten with Marie, takes her away for the winter and helps her to "put up a wall" to lessen the pain of losing her lover and effectively close her off emotionally. While visiting Erland's house she discovers that it was him who sent the diary to her at the theatre; he has had it ever since the day at the hospital when Henrik died from his injuries. She expresses regret and disgust that she ever allowed Erland to touch her, suggesting he took advantage of her grief and they had an affair following Henrik's death. Following the evening dress rehearsal she talks with the ballet master, who recognises her single minded devotion to her dancing and understands her problems, and then her current lover, a journalist called David, who she appears to be in the process of breaking up with. Marie decides to let David read Henrik's diary and then open up to him about her past experiences to explain her conflicted feelings and emotional coldness. After he has left she removes her make up and as she does so regains some of her lost youth and innocence, smiling again and pulling faces in the mirror. The film concludes during the successful first performance where we see Marie meeting David, now more understanding of Marie's past, in the wings. She happily kisses him and returns to the stage to finish the ballet.A cunning popular lady who lives with her relatives in a very old house, for trying to buy some bedrooms in the ouse, though after turned that then, so she did not buy all of the house, though some bedrooms- and tried to pull its owners spread with a rule that inside the house has a hidden treasure. They pull the suspicious "treasure chest" which they went there, bought the rooms and began to ruin the walls and the coop for finding the treasure. Together with all the others, they also began to sentimenally destroy, as they tried to have a successful finale for all.Caroline Bender  is an ambitious young secretary in a publishing firm who, when jilted, finds consolation in the arms of editor Mike Rice . Gregg Adams  is a typist and an aspiring actress romantically involved with stage director David Savage . When the director dumps her, she is devastated, falls from a fire escape and dies. April Morrison  winds up pregnant, and jumps from a car when her unborn infant's father Dexter Key  urges an abortion. All three women are under the supervision of editor Amanda Farrow , an exacting professional and a frustrated woman who marries, leaves the firm, and returns when she finds the simple life of home and marriage not to her liking.Kin, the first of the geisha, is consumed by the idea of wealth. As a moneylender, she is an embittered businesswoman who is insistent upon being repaid by her former geisha sisters, Tamae and Tomi. She is the love interest of a former soldier in Manchuria, Seki, who was sent to jail after trying to commit suicide with her many years ago. He returns to try to borrow money from her, but is quickly turned away. In the end, he is sent back to jail for a money-related crime. Kin then becomes excited when she hears that Tabe, her former patron and lover, is returning. However, she becomes furious after realizing that he does not love her, but rather just wants to borrow her money as well. She kicks him out and burns his photograph to erase his memory. In the end, she leaves the city on a search for property to buy. Tamae and Tomi, both former geisha, live together. Tamae is plagued by migraines, and as a result, she is unable to work as frequently as she would like as a housekeeper in a hotel. She is troubled by her son Kiyoshi's relationship with an older mistress. Yet, his new job allows her to repay her debts to Kin. Still, Tamae is saddened when her son decides to move away to Hokkaido. Tomi is a gambler who has not taken good care of herself after her days as a geisha. She laments her daughter Sachiko's upcoming marriage to an older man and tries to persuade her against it. Tomi is also indebted to Kin and is unable to repay this money as a result of her addiction to gambling. The last of the four geisha is Nobu. She and her husband own a restaurant, which is frequented by the other women.Clementi Sabourin is found dead. Police come to investigate, and when they question Bridget Kelly, who found the body, she tells them everything she knows about his past. A Czech refugee, missing and believed dead, Sabourin one day turns up to find his love Zina is now married to his brother. Out of spite, he betrays his brother to the police. Sabourin sets sail for America. At the port in New York he observes the shady Miss Kelly as she makes off with ship passenger Leonard Wilson's wallet. Sabourin makes a romantic play for Kelly, only to steal the wallet when her back is turned. Kelly's estranged husband pursues and shoots Sabourin in the street, but Sabourin still gets away. On a tip from the doctor who removes the bullet, Sabourin invests in a company that manufactures the drug penicillin. He fraudulently uses a $20,000 cashier's check from inside the stolen wallet to purchase the stock. Encountering the wealthy Mrs. Ryan, widow of a prominent businessman, Sabourin earns a considerable sum of money for her as well by tipping her to the stock, then covers his own bad check with a $20,000 loan from the grateful Mrs. Ryan. Sabourin becomes a great business success, with Miss Kelly and his broker, O'Hara, coming to work for him. He and his lawyer Bauman unscrupuously make deals to attain wealth while Sabourin begins courting a number of women romantically, including Mrs. Ryan's young secretary, Stephanie North, financing her ambition to be an actress, as well as the married, affluent Edith van Rensselaer. Also resurfacing is Zina, to whom Sabourin pledges his love and help, lying through his teeth. As everyone in his life comes to understand just what a scoundrel Sabourin is, each has a reason to kill him, until someone ultimately does.Cary Scott  is an affluent widow in suburban New England, whose social life involves her country club peers, college-age children, and a couple of men vying for her affection. She becomes interested in Ron Kirby , her family's gardener and a down-to-earth, younger man. Ron is content with his simple life outside of judgmental society, and the two fall in love. Ron introduces her to other people who have no need for wealth and status, and she responds positively. Cary accepts his proposal for marriage, but becomes distressed when her friends and children look down upon and reject her for this socially unacceptable marriage. Cary breaks off the marriage when her children threaten to abandon her, and she and Ron continue their separate lives in sorrow. As Cary's social life returns to its original state, she notices other women becoming engaged and living lives of happiness. Even her own children are soon to leave the family home. Cary realizes that she is ready to defy social norms and commit to loving Ron. She rushes to his side when he has a life-threatening accident, telling him that she has come home.As a young boy, after his mother dies, Rick Martin sees a trumpet in the window of a pawn shop. He works in a bowling alley to save up enough money to buy it. Rick grows up to be an outstanding musician, tutored by jazzman Art Hazzard. He lands a job playing for the big band of Jack Chandler, getting to know the piano player Smoke Willoughby and the beautiful singer Jo Jordan. Chandler orders him to always play the music exactly as written. Rick prefers to improvise, and one night, during a break with Chandler's band, he leads an impromptu jam session, which gets him fired. Jo has fallen for Rick and finds him a job in New York with a dance orchestra. One night, her friend Amy North accompanies her to hear Rick play. Amy, studying to be a psychiatrist, is a complicated young woman still disturbed by her own mother's suicide. She claims to be incapable of feeling love, but she and Rick begin an affair and eventually are married. Rarely together at the same time because of the hours they keep, Rick and Amy constantly quarrel. She fails in her attempt to become a doctor and takes it out on Rick, demanding a divorce. He begins drinking and his mood deteriorates to the point that one day he even takes it out on Art Hazzard, a man who had done so much for him. Before Rick can apologize, Art is hit by a car and killed. Rick becomes an alcoholic who neglects his music and even destroys his horn. He disappears, until one day Smoke finds him in a drunk tank. Jo is contacted and rushes to Rick's side, helping him to recover his love of music and of her—a happy ending found neither in the novel nor in the life of Bix Beiderbecke.In the beginning of the film, Demosthenes is agitating for war to resist Philip II's takeover of Greek city-states. While Philip II is leading a campaign to take over Olynthus, he is informed that his spouse Olympias has born him a son whom she claims is "a god born of a god." Philip is angry because he suspects that Olympias has committed adultery and that she was not impregnated by a god; however, General Parmenio advises the king to let Alexander grow up and succeed him. Alexander grows older and receives instructions in history, mathematics, logic, and other subjects from Aristotle in Mieza. Alexander is eager to rule and tells his tutor that like Achilles he would rather have a "short life with glory" than a "long life of obscurity." Philip then decides to send Alexander to the Macedonian capital, Pella, as a regent to rule the city while Philip is away fighting wars. This was done to prevent Olympias from spreading rumors about her husband's death. Alexander uses this opportunity to rule in his own right—he becomes neither a pawn of his mother nor his father. Alexander later joins Philip and they go on campaigns of conquest together to take over places such as Athens in the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BCE. After the battle is won, Alexander demands that no Greek city-state ever bear arms against Pella and that they supply men, arms, and ships for the war against Persia. Philip II divorces Olympias accusing her of "unfaithfulness" and marries Attalus's niece Eurydice thereby making her the new queen. This move creates a chasm between Alexander and his father not only because Alexander's mother has been repudiated but also because his succession hangs in the balance since some men in Philip's court see him as a bastard. Pausanias, a loyal friend of Alexander, assassinates Philip II whereupon Alexander kills Pausanias then and there. At this juncture, Alexander claims the loyalty of all Macedonians and assumes the titles of his father, and he tells all Macedonians that the Treaty of Corinth still stands. Memnon is exiled for not pledging his loyalty to Alexander. Alexander embarks on his mission to conquer the whole of Asia. Memon, who is now in Darius III's court, advises him to retreat strategically and attack Alexander when his supplies run out. However, the lords of Persia underestimate the "boy" Alexander and resolve to fight him at Granicus. After the victory at Granicus, Alexander goes to Phrygia and unravels the knot made by King Gordius by cutting it. Before the battle in Babylon, Alexander states that the lunar eclipse which some of his men thought was a bad omen means that "the Persian moon will be eclipsed by the Macedonian Sun" with which Aristander the seer agrees. After victory in Babylon, Darius III flees to the Caspian Gates to build and gather up an army; the dispirited commanders of Darius III kill him. In his will, Darius tells Alexander, "Take my daughter, Roxane, for your wife...that our worlds may become as one." Alexander then orders the lords of Persia that had committed regicide to be impaled upon stakes for their betrayal against their former kings. At a drunken revelry in Babylon, Alexander declares, "I am the son of God"  and "the world is my domain....We will march to the end of the world." In Athens, news reaches that Alexander is in India and is conquering there whereupon Aeschines proclaims, "He has outdone the gods." Alexander takes his status to heart, his arrogance and paranoia increasing to unstable proportions, but the bold young leader's conquests come to an end after he kills his close friend, Cleitus, with his spear after a drunken argument. Grief-stricken and humbled, Alexander returns to Babylon from India, losing many of his men in the process. He marries Roxane at Susa, but falls ill soon after. When asked upon his deathbed to whom he will leave his empire, Alexander whispers, "To the strongest."The story centers around Harvey Miller , whose father was a famous golf pro. He wanted Harvey to follow in his footsteps, but poor Harvey is afraid of crowds. Instead, at the advice of his fiancée Lisa , Harvey becomes a golf instructor. Lisa's brother Joe  becomes Harvey's first client and becomes good enough to start playing in tournaments, with Harvey tagging along as his caddy. Donna Reed plays the wealthy socialite who Dean wins over. Joe's success goes to his head and begins to treat Harvey poorly. They begin to quarrel and cause a disruption at a tournament and Joe is disqualified. However, a talent agent witnesses the spectacle and advices that they go into show business. Harvey conquers his fear and they become successful entertainers. At the end, Harvey and Joe meet up with another comedy team who look just like them, Martin and Lewis!Vijay  is an unsuccessful poet whose works are not taken seriously by publishers or his brothers . Unable to bear their taunting that he is a good-for-nothing, he stays away from home and is often out on the streets. He encounters a good-hearted prostitute named Gulabo , who is enamoured with his poetry and falls in love with him. He also encounters his ex-girlfriend Meena  from college and finds out that she has married a big publisher Mr. Ghosh  for financial security. Ghosh hires him as a servant to find out more about him and Meena. A dead beggar to whom Vijay gave his coat and whom he tries to save unsuccessfully from the path of a running train is mistaken for Vijay. Gulabo goes to Ghosh and gets his poems published. Ghosh does so feeling he can exploit the poems and make a killing. The poems are very successful. However, Vijay is alive and in the hospital after the train mishap. Ghosh and Shyam, Vijay's close friend, refuse to recognise him and he is committed to a mental asylum since he insists he is Vijay and is thought to be mad. Vijay's brothers too are bought off by Ghosh not to recognize him and a memorial is held for the dead poet. Vijay with the help of his friend Abdul Sattar ([[Johnny Walker  escapes from the mental asylum and reaches the memorial service where he denounces this corrupt and materialistic world. Seeing that Vijay is alive his friend and brothers take side with a rival publisher for more money and declare this is Vijay. At a function to honour him, Vijay becomes sick of all the hypocrisy in the world around him and declares he is not Vijay. He then leaves with Gulabo to start a new life.In 1851, Roy Whitman  decides to transport marriageable women west to join his lonely men, hoping the couples will put down roots and settle his California valley. Roy hires a skeptical, hardened trail boss, Buck Wyatt ([[Robert Taylor , to lead the wagon train along the California Trail. In Chicago, Roy recruits 138 "good women", after they have been warned of the journey's hardships and dangers by Buck. Telling the women about his valley, Roy encourages them to pick their prospective mates from pictures he has tacked to a board. Two saloon girls, Fifi Danon  and Laurie Smith ([[Julie Bishop , hastily change their flashy clothes when others like them are rejected. Roy is not fooled by their disguise, but convinced of their sincere wish to reform, he adds them to the group. During the journey, Buck shoots one of his men as punishment for raping Laurie. As a result, all but two of the trail hands desert the wagons in the middle of the night, taking eight of the women with them. This leaves only Ito , the Japanese cook, and Sid Cutler , who has fallen in love with an already-pregnant Rose Meyers , to lead the train. Buck, feeling he cannot continue without more experienced hands, decides the group must turn back. The women refuse to accept his decision. Roy believes that the women can learn to do "a man's job", so Buck starts training them. However, the only child in the group is accidentally shot by his own mother during shooting practice. Buck is forced to knock out the distraught woman,  when she refuses to leave her son's grave in the desert. The women perform heroically, persevering through many hardships, including a stampede. An Indian attack kills Roy, Sid, and some of the women. Laurie drowns when a rainstorm overturns her wagon, trapping her inside. However, Fifi's bravery and determination begin to thaw out Buck's attitude towards women in general and her in particular. When the survivors finally reach their destination, the women balk at entering town where their prospective grooms are waiting - until Buck can bring them decent clothing and "pretty things" so that they can look presentable. The men of the valley gather together curtains, tablecloths, Indian blankets, any material they can find, for the women to make into new clothes. The ladies then ride triumphantly into town and pair up with the men whose photographs they carried across country. The happy couples get in line before the preacher. Ito coaxes Fifi to convince Buck to join the line to get married.Pierre Tardivet, a professor, marries Marie-José Vauzange, a sensitive and inteligent girl with bad looks. Tardivet's mean spirit soon appears in their marital life, plunging Marie-José in a monotonous life. Two children are born out this marriage. Tardivet suffers a car accident and he is tended by Dr. Bosc, a famous plastic surgeon. Bosc operates on Marie-José and her transformation is total. Tardivet's meannes exacerbates as he becomes embittered and hateful towards the new looks of his wife whom he does not consider his anymore. He kills Dr. Bosc at the time when Marie-José and her sister's husband, Gérard Durieu, want to elope and restart their lives. Aware of her duties, she renounces her happiness to tend to her husband and children.The film opens with the titular Madame, Louise , whose surname is never given. She is a spoiled woman married to a General, André , who has amassed considerable debts due to her lifestyle. To settle them, she chooses to sell her large diamond earrings, a wedding present from her husband. It is hinted that Louise and André's marriage is less than intimate, as they sleep in separate beds and the General is shown to have a mistress. Louise attempts to disguise the disappearance of the earrings by pretending to have lost them at the opera. The search for them eventually reaches the newspaper, suggesting they may have been stolen, which in turn prompts the jeweler who bought them to go to the General directly and offer to sell them back, which he accepts. Rather than confront his wife, the General decides to give the earrings to his mistress, who is leaving for Constantinople. The mistress however accumulates a substantial gambling debt, and is forced to sell them. They are later purchased by an Italian baron, Fabrizio Donati , who is on his way to be a diplomat in the same city that Louise and André live in. At this time, the General has just gone away to war. At a series of chance encounters, Donati meets Louise and becomes infatuated with her, later meeting with her at a ballroom where they dance together. This evolves into an emotional affair, represented in a montage of dancing scenes where she and the baron fall in love. This sequence, with its glittering costumes and furnishings, and swirling camera work, was a celebrated example of Ophüls' style. The General returns from his campaign, which prompts Louise to stop seeing Donati. During a hunting trip with her husband, she witness's Donati fall from his horse, which causes her to faint. This is due to an unknown medical condition she was born with, described only has having a "weak heart." This event makes the General suspicious about her relationship to Donati. Donati later brings a gift to Louise at her home: roses, and the very earrings she sold at the start of the film. What she had cast aside so easily before suddenly has real meaning to her. In order to be able to wear them again in her husband's presence, Louise creates a ruse that they had been misplaced in one of her gloves the entire time, making a big show of "finding" them in front of the General. He knows she is lying, but says nothing. Later at another dance, the General takes the earrings from Louise and then quietly takes Donati aside and confronts him about the earrings, revealing their origin. He then gives the earrings to Donati and tells him to sell them back to the jeweler, so that the General may buy them back once more to give to Louise. Before departing, Donati informs Louise he can no longer see her and expresses his hurt at her lying to him. Following this night, Louise falls into a deep depression. The General presents her with the earrings he has bought back, and informs her that her unhappiness is her own fault. He tells her she must give the earrings away to his niece who has just given birth, to which Louise tearfully complies. The General's niece later is forced to sell the earrings to the jeweler to pay off her husbands debts, and once more the jeweler offers to sell them to the General, but this time he angrily refuses. Louise goes to the jeweler herself and offers to sell many of her precious items in order to buy the earrings back, which he accepts. She later informs the General of what she has done. In his anguish at having lost her love , the General goes to the club were Donati is and challenges him to a pistol duel. Louise pleads with Donati not to go through the duel, as the General is shown to be an excellent shot and will surely kill him. Donati refuses to back out, and later meets with the General in the woods with officials for the duel. Meanwhile Louise goes to a church to pray that the saints save Donati, and leaves the earrings as an offering. She then races through the woods with her servant to the location of the duel. The officials inform the two men that the General is allowed to fire first because he is the "offended party." He takes aim at Donati, who stands unflinching. Louise is shown ascending a hill toward the duel when a shot is heard. She collapses in shock, and slumps against a tree. Her servant tries to wake her but she does not respond, and runs off towards the men to ask for help as the scene fades. The final shot of the film shows the earrings venerated at the church in a glass case, with a card that reads "don de Madame de..."{{Plot}} In 1456, Charles VII, experiences dreams in which he is visited by Joan of Arc, the former commander of his army, burned at the stake as a heretic twenty-five years earlier. In the dream he tells Joan that her case was retried and her sentence annulled. He recalls how she entered his life as a simple, seventeen-year-old peasant girl; how she heard the voices of Saints Catherine and Margaret telling her that she would lead the French army against the English at the siege of Orléans and be responsible for having the Dauphin crowned king at Rheims cathedral. When Joan arrives at the Dauphin's palace at Chinon she discovers that he is a childish weakling with no interest in fighting. After being tested by the members of the court, who conclude that she is mad, Joan imbues the Dauphin with her belief and fervor and he gives her command of the army. Shortly thereafter, Joan witnesses the coronation of Charles. Although her military triumphs have made her popular with the masses, her voices, beliefs, self-confidence and apparent supernatural powers have given her fearful enemies in high places. Charles, who has no further use for her services, expects her to return to her father's farm. When Joan challenges Charles to retake Paris from the English, he tells her he would rather sign a treaty than fight. All refuse Joan's plea to march on Paris, and the archbishop warns her that if she defies her spiritual directors, the church will disown her. Nevertheless, Joan puts her faith in God and appeals to the common people to march on Paris. She is captured and handed over to the English. To assure that Joan will never again become a threat to England, the English commander, hands her over to the Catholic Church to be tried for heresy. Joan spends four months in a cell and is visited frequently by the Inquisitor. The English become impatient with the delay in her prosecution and press for the trial to begin. Joan holds to her faith, as always, refusing to deny that the church is wiser than she or her voices. In a moment of panic and worn down by the constant pressures applied by the Inquisitior, Joan signs a document of recantation in which she confesses that she pretended to hear revelations from God and the saints in the belief that this will result in her freedom to return to her life as a peasant girl. When she learns that the sentence of the Inquisition is her perpetual, solitary imprisonment, Joan destroys the document, refusing to face a life away from nature, the life that opened her spirit to hear God and the saints. She now believes that God wants her to come to him through the ordeal of being burned at the stake. After Joan is excommunicated, the English, weary of the Church's endless and delaying rituals decide that Joan can be executed long before the Vatican learns about it, and so orders his soldiers to drag Joan to the square to be burned. The Inquisitor chooses to look the other way and let the English burn her. Those who witness Joan's death are stricken with remorse. The King's dream continues as he and Joan are visited by other significant figures from her life. Growing weary of all the spirit visitors, Charles tells Joan he has dreamed of her long enough and returns to his bed and his troubled sleep.The setting is a housing project apartment. Johnny Pope ([[Don Murray  is a soldier who returns from the Korean War, where a stay in a military hospital has left him secretly addicted to morphine. His emotional distance  alienate him from the apartment's other residents: Johnny's pregnant wife Celia  and his brother Polo . Celia is convinced that Johnny is having an affair, but of course the truth is far worse. Johnny and Polo's father, John Sr., arrives in town and stays with them in the small apartment, further complicating a tense situation and leading to a dynamic and dramatic climax.The movie starts with Braulio Peláez , a schoolteacher, having just fallen off his horse, representing the situation he and his family are in. The next scenes introduce the viewer to his family and their poor financial and social situation. As Braulio stumbles around looking for his glasses, he causes a famous film star, Alfonso de Madrazo  to crash his car. Braulio offers him to eat at his house as an apology. Braulio's sister and mother, big film fans, immediately recognise Alfonso and attempt to get him to bring the girl, Luisa Peláez  to Mexico City to become a film star. Alfonso agrees and tells them to come to the capital. Braulio and his sister duly come to the capital and go to a dinner reception which Alfonso is also attending. Luisa goes to talk to Alfonso but he pretends not to recognise them and calls them liars. As Luisa tells Braulio this, there is a competition held to see who can sing the best, with the winner winning a kiss from Elisa Miranda , a famous actress who just finished a song. Braulio gets up to give out to Alfonso and is inadvertendly picked to sing. It turns out he has a great singing voice and Elisa takes a shine to him immediately. After the song, he goes to Alfonso and gets in a fight, knocking down several men. Seeing this, Elisa states that he is the perfect man for her next movie. Braulio is invited to dine with her and the director and they agree to meet the following day. At the meeting, they convince an initially reluctant Braulio to take the part, but only after he insists that they pretend the part is actually going to his sister, who the executives don't want to hire because of her awful singing voice. The next day, Braulio turns up to do his job and is introduced the film business for the first time. As he wanders through the studio looking for where they're filming, he meets several famous Mexican actors, including Tin Tan, Leticia Palma and Antonio Badú, who he punches thinking he was assaulting a woman, when it wasa actually just a film. Then, as he goes to record the songs for the movie, he accidentally insults, then does a duet with Pedro Vargas. As filming continues, though, it is clear that Braulio does not have what it takes to be a big star, as a result, the producer asks Braulio how much he wants to be released from his contract. Braulio says he wants nothing and, despite the pleas of Eliza, decides to go back to his town and his job as a schoolteacher. While on the train home, he and his sister discover that a lottery ticket he bought earlier was a winner and he can now afford to buy equipment for his father who is a dentist, so that he can get more patients. Braulio and his sister are welcomed back as heroes to the town. When he gets back to his school, he sees a picture drawn on the blackboard, when he asks who it was, a hand raises. He moves closer and discovers the hand in that of Eliza, the two embrace as the movie ends.Edward, Prince of Wales, son and heir to his father King Edward III of England, leads an English army to the French province of Aquitaine to protect the inhabitant from the ravages of the French. After defeating the French in battle, the defeated French plot to kill the prince. Failing in this, they kidnap his lady, the lovely Lady Joan Holland. Of course Prince Edward has to ride to the rescue, adopting numerous guises to save his paramour, which ultimately end in him leading his men into one final climactic battle against the French.In Paris, beautiful Dominique Vallon is involved with a young man, Bertrand Griot, until suddenly entering into an unwise week-long romance with his wealthy and married uncle, Luc Ferrand.Yamazaki, an aspiring screenwriter, played by Jukichi Uno, is boarding with a couple and their daughter. He and the daughter become involved romantically and the father asks him to leave, and tells the daughter not to marry Yamazaki because of his insecure line of work. In the end the wife dies of tuberculosis.Liz Erickson  is a young, naive woman who has recently graduated from high school. Along with her best friend Janet Shaw , she leaves her parental home to join the same college - Midwestern University - where her mother was once a legendary alma mater. Liz and Janet dream of being pledged by the elite group of girls who call themselves Tri-U Sorority. Liz thinks that joining a sorority is more important than her education, and is surprised that her fellow roommate Adelaide Swanson  is not interested in Tri-U. During her first weeks in college, Liz has no trouble befriending Tri-U's members, including Dallas Prewitt , Marge Colby , Merry Coombs  and Casey Krausse . Janet, on the other hand, does not make an impression on the snobbish girls. Neither does shy Ruth Gates , whose mother was a respected Tri-U, but she is - unlike Janet - admitted to the pledge due to her family name. Liz is pledged as well, and feels guilty for seeing her dream come true, while Janet, crushed by the rejection, is leaving the college. Meanwhile, she meets Joe Blake , a senior at college and once a member of the army who is opposed to sororities due to its snobbish cliques. Liz is also pushed by arrogant Dallas to date Chad Carnes , the most popular fraternity boy whose reputation as a drunken womanizer is not unnoticed by Liz. She initially does not take a liking in him, but Chad wins over her affection and convinces her to help him cheat at an important exam. Her sorority sisters acclaim her as a hero for her actions, but Joe feels disappointed in her lack of ethics. Soon after, 'Hell Week' begins, which includes humiliating and taking pranks on the new pledges. On insistence of Dallas, Ruth is released from the pledge, while Liz is assigned to make silly errands. She runs into Joe, and agrees to accompany him to a party. Chad also attends this party, and chastises Liz for ignoring her duties. Joe sticks up for her, and gets into a fist fight with Chad. Realizing that Joe is the one she wants to be with, she rejects Chad and returns to Tri-U. There, she is disgusted to find out that Ruth has been de-pledged. She goes out to look for her, and finds her wondering on the streets. Liz takes Ruth to the hospital, where she is diagnosed with pneumonia. Ashamed for being part of a clique that has done this to Ruth, Liz heads back to Tri-U to return her pin. The girls feel that she is out of her mind for doing this, but Liz castigates them for their hypocrisy and snobbishness. She leaves with Joe, wondering how her mother will react.Kottaiyur Dharmalinga Mudaliyar, a cunning scoundrel who appears as a noble man to the outside world. Rangam, his virtuous and long-suffering wife. Dharmalinga Mudaliyaar also has an eye on his sister-in-law Thangam. In order to marry Thangam and get control of the abundant wealth of the sisters, Dharamlingam ensures that everyone believes that Rangam is possessed by some evil spirit and is slowly becoming insane.Alain, the Sire de Maletroit , plots revenge on his younger brother Edmund  for stealing Alain's childhood sweetheart, now deceased. Alain imprisons Edmund in a dungeon for 20 years. He then convinces Edmund's grown daughter Blanche  that her father is dead. As Blanche's mother  died in childbirth, Maletroit intends to further antagonize Blanche by reducing her life to a miserable hell. As the film begins, he tricks a high-born drunken cad, Denis de Beaulieu , to pass through the sole, exterior door of the Maletroit chateau, which has no latch handle on the inside, making him a captive, with the intent of forcing the delicate Blanche into marriage with him. However, Denis has unanticipated redemptive qualities, and he and Blanche fall in love. Their attempt to escape is initially foiled by Alain, who seals Edmund, Blanche and Denis in a stone deathtrap designed to crush the lot of them. Maletroit's disloyal manservant Voltan  comes to their aid and dies effecting the escape of Denis, Blanche and her father from a dungeon cell, the walls of which are crushing in on them under pressure of river water churned against them by a water wheel on the chateau. Alain dies when he falls into the river and is caught up in the water wheel, his fat body jamming it to a halt.Jordan "Bick" Benedict , the head of the rich Benedict ranching family of Texas, goes to Maryland to buy a stud horse, War Winds. There he meets and courts the socialite Leslie Lynnton , who breaks off her engagement to a diplomat  and becomes Bick's wife. They return to Texas to start their life together on the family ranch, Reata, where Bick's sister Luz  runs the household. Luz resents Leslie's arrival and tries to intimidate her. Jett Rink  works for Luz and hopes to find his fortune by leaving Texas; he also has a secret love for Leslie. Luz expresses her hostility for Leslie by cruelly digging in her spurs while riding Leslie's beloved horse, War Winds. Luz dies after War Winds bucks her off, and as part of her will, Jett is given a plot of land within the Benedict ranch. Bick tries to buy back the land, but Jett refuses. Jett keeps the fenced off waterhole as his home and names the property Little Reata. Leslie eventually gives birth to twins, Jordan "Jordy" Benedict III  and Judy Benedict , and a younger daughter named Luz II . Jett discovers traces of oil in a footprint left by Leslie and he drills in the spot. He hits his first gusher and is covered in the spouting oil. He drives to the Benedict front yard to assert himself and proclaim to the family and guests that he will be richer than the Benedicts. After Jett makes a rude sexual remark to Leslie, Bick punches him. As Bick's friends restrain him, Jett hits him several times, then drives off. In the years before World War II, Jett prospers through his oil drilling company, named 'Jetexas'. Determined to remain a cattle rancher like his forefathers, Bick rejects several offers to drill for oil on his much larger ranch. Meanwhile, tensions in the Benedict household revolve around how the parents want to bring up their children. Bick insists that Jordy must succeed him and run the ranch, as his father and grandfather before him &ndash; but Jordy wants to be a doctor. Leslie wants Judy to attend finishing school in Switzerland, but Judy loves the ranch and wants to study animal husbandry at Texas Tech. Both children succeed in pursuing their chosen vocations. After war breaks out, Jett visits the Benedicts to persuade Bick to allow oil production on his land to help the war effort. Recognizing that his children will not take over the ranch when he retires, Bick concedes. Both Bick and Jett have developed drinking problems. Luz II, now in her teens, starts flirting with Jett. Once oil production starts on the ranch, the wealthy Benedict family becomes even wealthier, as suggested by the addition of a swimming pool next to the house. After the war, the Benedict-Rink rivalry continues, coming to a head when the Benedicts discover that Luz II and the much older Jett have been dating. At a huge gala Jett organizes in his own honor, an irate Jordy tries to fight him after his Mexican-American wife, Juana , is repeatedly insulted by Jett's employees because of her race. As his goons hold Jordy, Jett punches him repeatedly in front of a crowd, and has the young man thrown out. Fed up, Bick challenges Jett to a fistfight. Drunk and almost incoherent, Jett leads the way to a wine storage room. Seeing that Jett is in no state to defend himself, Bick lowers his fists, says "You're not even worth hitting. ... You're all through," and leaves, but not before toppling Jett's wine cellar shelves, domino-style. Jett, completely drunk, collapses face down and falls asleep on the table in front of his seat of honor. All the guests leave. Later, Luz II sees him partly recovered from his stupor, talking to an empty room and disclosing that his sexual interest in the young girl is only his attempt to possess her mother symbolically. The next day, the Benedicts, all except Jordy, drive down a sparsely traveled road and stop at a segregated diner. Juana and her little boy are once again insulted racially, and when the proprietor, Sarge , insults and begins to physically eject an old Mexican man and his family, Bick tries to stop him. This leads to a fistfight, which Bick clearly loses. Juana, Leslie and Luz II are disgusted by Sarge's bigotry, but proud of Bick for standing up to the bully. Back at the ranch, Bick and Leslie watch their grandchildren, blonde and Latino, and reflect on their life and family. Leslie tells Bick that after watching him lose the fight in the diner, she respects his evolution in understanding the concerns of people not like his wealthy forbears, and considers their own incarnation of the Benedict family a success.Americans Tommy Albright  and Jeff Douglas  are on a hunting trip in Scotland and become lost in the woodlands. They happen upon Brigadoon, a miraculously blessed village that rises out of the mists every hundred years for only a day.  If any villager ever leaves Brigadoon, the spell will be broken and the village will vanish forever, and any outsider who wishes to stay must accept the loss of everything he or she knew in the outside world. Tommy falls in love with village lass Fiona Campbell , whose younger sister Jean , is about to be married to Charlie Dalrymple . Interrupting the wedding, the jealous Harry Beaton  announces he is leaving Brigadoon to make everything disappear, since the girl he loves, Jean, is marrying another man. Harry's words cause mass chaos among the townspeople and they all rush to stop him. Harry almost crosses the bridge but is stopped short by Tommy, who is knocked unconscious. With men closing in on him, Harry climbs up a tree to hide but is soon shot accidentally by Jeff, who skipped the wedding to hunt and shot at a bird that flew by Harry. Harry falls dead to the ground and is soon found by the men. Fiona frantically searches to find Tommy. Confessing their love for each other, they decide to marry making Tommy stay in Brigadoon for good. But while Fiona goes off to find the preacher, Tommy tells Jeff about his plan. Jeff, drunk and remorseful of accidentally killing Harry, tells Tommy he can't just leave everything in the real world behind for this girl he's only known a day. Fiona returns with the preacher but Tommy confesses that he cannot stay. Fiona says she understands but is heartbroken and they say good-bye before Brigadoon completely disappears. Tommy and Jeff cross the bridge and walk away. Back in New York City, Tommy can think only of Fiona. Unable even to talk with his fiancee, Tommy ends his relationship with her and calls Jeff, telling him to get the first flight back to Scotland. He and Jeff return to the same spot where they were lost, though Jeff reminds him again the village will not be there. But suddenly he sees lights start to appear over the mist and runs toward them. Brigadoon reappears and Tommy gets to the foot of the bridge to see the preacher half-awake on the other side saying: "Tommy, is that you lad? You woke me up early. You must really love her." Tommy then runs across the bridge and reunites with Fiona, waving goodbye to Jeff as the village fades back into the mist.The Stooges play three sets of identical triplets, born one year apart. All nine brothers lose track of each other after World War II, unaware that they are all living in the same city. One set  is single, one  is married, and the other  is engaged. Trouble brews when the engaged set of brothers decided to celebrate at a local nightclub. Before they arrive, the unmarried set show up, followed by the fiancees of their brothers. The ladies start hugging and kissing the unsuspecting brothers. Within minutes, the wives of the married brothers show up, thinking their husbands are cheating on them. Hilarity ensues when the nightclub waiter  walks in and sees all nine brothers simultaneously.Eccentric millionaire Frederick Loren  invites five people to a "party" he is throwing for his fourth wife, Annabelle , in a rented house, promising to give them each $10,000 with the stipulation that they must stay the entire night in the house after the doors are locked at midnight. Arriving late at night in separate funeral cars with a hearse leading the procession, Loren's guests are told the rules of the party, and each are given a .45 caliber pistol for protection. Forced to attend the party, Loren's wife tries to warn the guests that her husband is psychotic, causing them to be very suspicious of him. Nora Manning  becomes convinced that he's trying to kill her when she keeps seeing frightening apparitions, including the ghost of Annabelle, who had apparently hanged herself some time during the night. Almost as frightened as Nora is another party guest, Watson Pritchard , the owner of the house. He is convinced that the house is genuinely haunted by the ghosts of those killed there in the past, including his own brother, and that those ghosts have the power to "come for"  anyone in the house. Party guest Lance Schroeder ([[Richard Long  is attacked in a basement room, but is convinced his attacker was real, and tries to calm Nora's fears. It is eventually revealed that Annabelle, in league with one of the guests, Dr. Trent ([[Alan Marshal , faked her death in an attempt to frighten Nora so badly that she will be compelled to shoot Frederick. After being driven into a fit of hysteria by the repeated frights she has experienced during the night, Nora, seeing Frederick walking toward her in the basement with a gun in his hand, does indeed shoot him. After she flees the room, Dr. Trent slips in and tries to get rid of Frederick's body by pushing it into a vat of acid there, but the lights go out, and the sounds of a struggle and splash are heard. Hearing the gunshot, Annabelle rushes down to the basement to confirm that her husband is dead, but finds the room empty. Suddenly, a skeleton rises from the acid accompanied by Frederick's disembodied voice. As the animated spectre approaches her, a screaming Annabelle recoils in horror, accidentally falling into the acid herself. The real Frederick then emerges from the shadows, holding the contraption that he used to manipulate the skeleton. Triumphant, he watches Annabelle dissolve in the acid. Nora tells the other guests that she has shot Loren in the basement, but when they all arrive there they find him alive. He tells Nora that the gun she fired at him had been loaded with blanks, and explains to his guests that his wife and Dr. Trent had been trying to kill him and that they have each met their end in the vat of acid, adding solemnly that he is "ready for justice to decide" his guilt or innocence. Watson Pritchard, still an avid believer in the supernatural, looks into the acid and declares that Annabelle and Dr. Trent have now joined the ranks of the house's many ghosts. With a terrified expression on his face, he announces that the ghosts are now coming for him, then, breaking the fourth wall, he turns toward the camera and adds, "and then they'll come for you."The film opens in a Wellington courtroom, where testimony prompts Barbara Leslie to flash back to the events that led to the trial. She and her sisters Anne, Evelyn, and Delia live in Christchurch, where most of the male residents, including their brother Kit and Barbara's new husband Mark, are preparing to leave for World War II duty. Delia announces her engagement to Phil Friskett, known as "Shiner", who is one of the city's few remaining bachelors, but word of Kit's death dampens the celebration. Repressed and judgmental spinster sister Anne disapproves of the upcoming nuptials, but Barbara defends Delia's decision. Within weeks of the marriage, the sisters come to resent Shiner's abuse and are happy to see him leave for active duty. Delia moves to Wellington to work for the Navy. When several hundred United States Marines are shipped to Christchurch following the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, the lonely local women are flattered by the attention they pay them. When Evelyn invites Capt. Richard Bates to dinner, he declines the offer, but not without attracting Anne's eye. Concerned about Delia, Anne sends Barbara to Wellington, where she discovers her sister is registered at the St. George Hotel under her maiden name. Shiner is now a prisoner of war, and Delia has become involved with an American lieutenant named Andy. She plans to divorce Shiner and emigrate to the United States. Andy introduces Barbara to his friend Jack Harding, a soldier investigating the prospective New Zealand brides of American soldiers. Although Barbara intends to remain faithful to her husband, she finds herself attracted to Jack. Back in Christchurch, Anne is outraged by the lewd comments made by American servicemen in the lingerie shop where she works and writes a letter of complaint to the local paper. Following its publication, Richard is sent to the Leslie home to deliver a formal apology on behalf of the Marine Corps. Anne invites him to dinner, and Richard arrives with a gift of perfume for each sister. Anne accuses him of trying to seduce them. Soon after, Barbara and Anne learn of Mark's death and Richard's departure for active duty. He eventually returns to New Zealand to recuperate from an injury, and a romance between him and Anne blossoms. He proposes, but before the required marital investigation can take place, he is given offshore duty, leaving Anne expecting their child and unsure of what the future holds for them. Jack arrives at the Leslie home to conduct his investigation of Anne, and he advises her that wartime romances stem from loneliness rather than love. Barbara tells him his assessment is heartless. Shortly after she discovers Richard's name on the latest casualty list. Weeks later, Jack meets Barbara at a local dance, where she suggests he uses alcohol to avoid intimacy. He breaks down in her arms, and a strong friendship between the two blossoms. Jack celebrates Christmas Eve with the Leslie family, which now includes Anne's newborn son. When he announces his imminent departure for duty, he and Barbara share an amorous embrace. Months later, Evelyn's sweetheart Tommy returns from war and proposes to her. Barbara sees an ad from Richard's mother in a newspaper column containing personal notices from American families and writes to her. Mrs. Bates sends money to finance Anne and her baby's move to Oklahoma to live with Richard's family. As Anne's departure approaches, Delia goes to Wellington to see her off and to meet Shiner, who has just returned from war. He accuses her of infidelity and she demands a divorce so she can leave for America with her lover. Infuriated, Shiner kills his wife with a Japanese sword he brought back from the war. Weeks later, during the murder trial, Jack is forced to reveal his investigation report detailing Delia's many affairs with American soldiers. Upset that her sister's infidelities seemingly have justified her savage murder, Barbara refuses Jack's invitation to leave New Zealand with him. Upon reflection, she packs her belongings and arrives at Jack's hotel to tell him she's ready to embark upon a new life with him.Mr. Dinkle and Jack look for work at the Cosman Employment Agency. Jack makes advances to Cosman employee Polly, but he is thwarted by the arrival of her boyfriend, a towering police officer. Polly assigns Dinkle and Jack to babysit for Eloise Larkin's brother and infant sister, while Eloise and her fiancé are out for the evening. The babysitting duties are complicated by the fact that Donald is something of a prodigy, as well as a self-proclaimed "problem child". The dullwitted Jack is soon outclassed by the child, and an attempt to lull the boy to sleep by reading the fairy tale Jack and the Beanstalk  aloud fails when Jack stumbles over the larger words. Bemused by Jack's incompetence, Donald reads the story instead -- a role-reversal made complete when Jack falls asleep as Donald reads. In his slumber, Jack dreams that he is the young Jack of the fairy tale. In his dream Jack learns that the Giant, who lives in a castle in the sky, has stolen all of the land's wealth and food. The situation obliges the kingdom's Princess to marry The Prince of a neighboring kingdom, whom she has never met. Jack must also make sacrifices, when his mother sends him to sell the last family possession, their beloved cow "Henry", to the local butcher, Mr. Dinklepuss. Along the way Jack meets The Prince . The unscrupulous Dinklepuss pays Jack five 'magic' beans for the cow. Upon returning home, Jack learns that the Giant has also kidnapped The Princess and Henry. Undeterred by his mother's disappointment over bringing home only beans, Jack plants them and a gigantic beanstalk grows overnight. He decides to climb the beanstalk to rescue everyone from the Giant's clutches, as well as retrieve "Nellie", the golden-egg laying hen that the Giant previously stole from Jack's family. Upon learning of Nellie's existence, Dinklepuss decides to join Jack on the adventure. When they reach the top of the beanstalk, Jack and Dinklepuss are captured by the Giant and imprisoned with the prince and princess. After the Giant assigns the hapless pair to toil around the castle, they befriend his housekeeper, Polly, who helps them escape over the castle wall along with the royal prisoners, Nellie, and some of the Giant's stolen gems. . They flee down the beanstalk with the Giant in pursuit, as Polly escapes the castle behind him, astride Henry. During the descent, Dinklepuss loses Nellie  and then the gems, which rain down upon the impoverished townsfolk below. Once all are on the ground, Jack chops down the beanstalk, sending the Giant falling to his death. Just before being rewarded by the King for heroism, Jack is rudely awakened from his dream by Donald, who breaks a vase over Jack's head as Eloise and Arthur return home. Jack's angry outburst over Donald's behavior results in a second blow to the head from Dinkle, which returns Jack to his dream state. After greeting the others as their storybook counterparts, Jack walks off into the night with the bravado of "Jack the Giant-Killer".After many childless years, King Stefan and Queen Leah welcome the birth of their daughter, Aurora. They proclaim a holiday for the high and low estate to pay homage to the princess. At the gathering of the christening by everyone in the kingdom, she is betrothed to Prince Phillip, the young son of King Hubert, so that the kingdoms of Stefan and Hubert will be forever united. Also attending are the three good fairies, Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather, who have come to bless the child with gifts. The first fairy, Flora, gives the princess the gift of beauty, while the next fairy, Fauna, gives her the gift of song. Before Merryweather is able to give her blessing, a wicked fairy named Maleficent appears and pretends to be gracious about her having been left out. The evil fairy then curses the princess, proclaiming that, while she will indeed be beautiful and graceful, before the sun sets on her sixteenth birthday, she will prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and die. Merryweather is able to use her blessing to weaken the curse, so that instead of death, Aurora will fall asleep from which she can be awakened by true love's kiss. Though King Stefan orders all spinning wheels in the kingdom to be burned, the three fairies know Maleficent's spell cannot be stopped that easily and devise a plan to protect Aurora. They disguise themselves as peasant women and with the King and Queen's consent they sneak Aurora away with them to a woodcutter's cottage in the forest until her sixteenth birthday passes. As the years pass, Maleficent rages to her beastial minions the sheer impossibility of how the princess has managed to evade her for so many years. Her bumbling guards reveal that they had been looking for a baby the whole time, not realizing that the princess would have grown up. Disgusted at their idiocy, Maleficent dispatches her pet raven to search. Years later, Aurora, renamed Briar Rose, has grown into a beautiful young woman with the blessings that Flora and Fauna bestowed to her. Sweet and gentle, she dreams of falling in love one day. On her sixteenth birthday, the three fairies ask Rose to gather berries in the forest so they can prepare a surprise party for her. While singing in the forest, Rose attracts the attention of Prince Phillip, now a handsome young man, as he is out riding his horse, Samson. When they meet, they instantly fall in love. Realizing that she has to return home, Rose flees from Phillip without ever learning his name, but asks him to come to her cottage that evening. While she is away, the fairies' quarrel over whether Aurora's gown should be pink or blue draws the attention of Maleficent's pet raven, revealing the location of the long-missing Aurora. Back at home, the fairies tell Rose the truth and escort the now-heartbroken princess back to her parents. Meanwhile, Phillip tells his father of a peasant girl he met and wishes to marry in spite of his prearranged marriage to Princess Aurora. King Hubert tries to convince Phillip to marry the princess instead of the peasant girl, but fails. In a room within the palace, Maleficent lures Aurora away from the fairies through a secret entrance behind a fireplace and up a staircase to an empty room, where an enchanted spinning wheel awaits her. Aurora touches the spindle, pricking her finger and completing the curse mere moments before sundown. The good fairies place Aurora on a bed in the highest tower and place a powerful charm on all the people in the kingdom, causing them to fall in a deep sleep until the spell is broken. Before falling asleep, King Hubert tells Stefan of his son being in love with a peasant girl, which the fairies overhear. The fairies realize that Prince Phillip is the man with whom Aurora has fallen in love. However, Prince Phillip, arriving at the peasant girl's home, is kidnapped by Maleficent and her minions to prevent him from breaking her spell. The fairies discover Phillip's hunting cap in the ravaged woodcutter's cottage and realise that Maleficent has taken Phillip prisoner. They then journey to the Forbidden Mountain and sneak into Maleficent's castle to rescue him. They follow Maleficent to the dungeon where she taunts Phillip , and then she leaves him, laughing with delight at his rage. The fairies enter the chamber, release the prince, and arm him with the magical Sword of Truth and the Shield of Virtue. Phillip and the fairies then escape from the prison cell and encounter Maleficent's minions who try to stop Phillip from escaping. After their failed attempts with help by the fairies, Maleficent surrounds Stefan's castle with a forest of thorns, but when that fails to stop Phillip, Maleficent transforms into a gigantic dragon to battle the prince herself. Ultimately, Phillip throws the sword, blessed by the fairies' magic, directly into Maleficent's heart, causing Maleficent to fall to her death from a cliff and turn to ash. Phillip enters the castle and goes up the highest tower to awaken Aurora with a kiss. The spell over her is broken and everyone else in the castle also awakens too. The royal couple descends to the ballroom, where Aurora is happily reunited with her parents. The fairies resume their quarrel over the color of Aurora's dress, the last color to appear being pink. Aurora and Prince Phillip live happily ever after.The film is set in France during the Seven Years' War. As the film begins, Fanfan  is a charming, attractive young man who is trying to escape a shotgun marriage. At this vulnerable point in his life, he is approached by the daughter of a recruiting officer, Adeline , who tells him that if he joins the army, he will find fame, fortune, and will marry the king's daughter. Accordingly he joins the army, only to discover that she made the whole thing up in order for her father to get a recruiting bonus. Nevertheless, encouraged by a series of improbable circumstances, he accepts her prediction as his destiny. A series of events ensues which shows off to great advantage his athleticism and leadership ability. As the film progresses, we become aware of a developing attraction between himself and Adeline which however conflicts with his perceived “destiny” of marrying a king's daughter.Nita Holloway, a woman romantically involved with veteran actor Preston "Mitch" Mitchell, tries to persuade him to come out of retirement to appear in a Broadway play as the father of a character played by a new teen idol, Tony Manza. At his Connecticut farm, next-door neighbor Bill Tremayne asks to borrow Mitch's car. He goes to a party and meets secretary Janet Blake, who is trying to escape the clutches of her drunken boss, a dentist. Bill offers her a ride home in a rainstorm, but is a little too attentive to her liking. Soaked to the skin, Janet ends up knocking on Mitch's door. He permits her to spend the night while her dress dries. Nita arrives in the morning and mistakenly concludes an affair is taking place, and soon others assume the same. Mitch puts her on a train but also offers Janet a job as his own secretary. As the train leaves, he stumbles, injuring his back. Bill isn't worried at first because Mitch is obviously too old for Janet, but he comes to realize that she is indeed falling for Mitch a little more every day. Scheduled to ride Mitch's star horse in an equine contest, Bill jealously decides to ride another entry instead. Mitch must compete against him, bad back and all. Although he feels great affection toward her, Mitch ultimately realizes that Bill and Janet were meant for each other. He happily goes back to Nita, and is last seen on stage in the new Broadway play.After serving all his working life with the 'South Star' line, exclusively in cargo ships, Albert Ebbs is finally given command  of the SS Queen Adelaide, a cruise liner sailing from London to Sydney. An excellent seaman. he finds that he now has many social obligations that he does not have the skills to fulfill. He must preside at the Captain's Table, host cocktail parties, judge beauty contests and dance with the lady passengers. He must also cope with amorous widows, young couples who want him to marry them and a blustering ex-major who claims to have the ear of the Chairman of the shipping line. To add to his woes, most of the officers and crew, led by the Chief Purser, are actively on the fiddle. The Captain doesn't fully realise this until the last night of the cruise, when champagne being served is revealed to be cider, with the crew pocketing the considerable profits. All comes out well - just. The Captain finds himself engaged to be married to an attractive widow, the Chief Officer is also engaged to a young heiress and the larcenous officers are arrested by Sydney police. http://ftvdb.bfi.org.uk/sift/title/28677 The Captain's Table is an institution in a cruise ship. The captain dines there, but the fuss is about who he is dining with. Being invited to the Captain's Table is regarded upon as an honour. The criteria for obtaining a seat around the captain's dining table may vary from ship to ship, and are in general not made public.Isabel  is a good-natured and sensible spinster who lives in a small town with her widowed mother. At the age of 34, she is losing all hope of getting married and having children. A bunch of bored middle-aged friends decides to play a trick on Isabel: Juan , the youngest and most handsome of them, will pretend to fall in love with her. As Isabel lives the courtship, full of hope and joy, Juan realizes too late the cruelty of the situation, but, pushed by his buddies, doesn't dare tell Isabel the truth. When the day of the gala dance at the town's club comes, Isabel is still living her dream of love. She expects her engagement to be publicly announced from the stage, but Juan, desperate, tries to do anything to shy away from the muddle.The Stooges are three paperhangers who also look after invalid Mary, who uses a wheelchair. While working, they are taken by one poster that advertises a great hypnotist, Svengarlic . The Stooges want the hypnotist to work his magic on Mary so that she can walk again, but Svengarlic is more interested in winning an audience to create a diversion by hypnotizing the Stooges. While the audience watches the Stooges dance on an overhead flagpole, Svengarlic's henchmen are in the process of robbing a bank. But a distracted bicyclist knocks Svengarlic over and the Stooges are abruptly awakened. They immediately panic when they see where they are, then the flagpole breaks, sending them flying through the open window of the bank being robbed, thwarting the theft.Set in New Orleans in the year 1937, Suddenly, Last Summer tells the story of Catherine Holly , a young woman institutionalized for a severe emotional disturbance that occurred when her cousin, Sebastian Venable, died under questionable circumstances while they were on summer holiday in Europe. The late Sebastian's wealthy mother, Violet Venable , makes every effort to deny and suppress the potentially sordid truth about her son and his demise. Toward that end, she attempts to bribe the state hospital's administrator, Dr. Lawrence Hockstader , by offering to finance a new wing for the underfunded facility if he will coerce his brilliant young surgeon, Dr. John Cukrowicz , into lobotomizing her niece, thereby removing any chance that the events surrounding her son's death might be revealed by Catherine's "obscene babbling". Mrs. Venable meets with Dr. Cukrowicz in the primordial garden  at her estate to discuss her niece's case, and their conversation eventually turns to Sebastian. Mrs. Venable describes him as a poet whose art was his sole occupation – even though he only wrote a single poem each year during the summer months and never published his work – and recounts her own previous vacations with him. Cukrowicz agrees to visit Catherine and begin his evaluation. Catherine has been confined to a private women's mental institution since returning from Europe several months earlier. When Cukrowicz interviews her, she struggles to recall the specific events that led to Sebastian's death and her subsequent breakdown, but expresses a sincere desire to do so. Beginning to doubt that she has lost her mind, Cukrowicz decides to move Catherine into the state hospital for continued observation. Catherine's mother, Grace , and brother, George , pay her a visit there and reveal that Sebastian has left them a considerable sum of money. Unfortunately, Mrs. Venable will not give them the inheritance unless they sign papers to commit Catherine to the institution and allow a lobotomy to be performed. Alarmed by this prospect, Catherine tries to escape. She accidentally wanders onto a catwalk suspended over the men's recreational area. With the door at the other end of the catwalk locked, she is forced to fight her way back past the men who are trying to climb up onto the catwalk and grope her, and returns to her room in defeat. Later, Mrs. Venable drops by to check on the status of Cukrowicz's evaluation. The doctor persuades her to meet Catherine face to face. In the ensuing confrontation, Catherine tries to get her aunt to reveal the true nature of her relationship with Sebastian and the reason why she was left behind and Catherine chosen to take her place as his traveling companion, vaguely hinting that Sebastian used them as "bait" and that they "procured for him". Mrs. Venable responds to these allegations by fainting. Using this opportunity to slip away, Catherine finds another catwalk that runs above a room filled with women. She climbs the railing and leans out precipitously, considering the jump, but before she can release her hold, an orderly  comes up behind her, drags her back to her room and sedates her. In a last-ditch effort to help Catherine, Cukrowicz brings her to the Venable estate where he administers a truth serum that will allow her to overcome any resistance to remembering what happened that summer. Before an audience consisting of her aunt, mother and brother, Miss Foxhill , Dr. Hockstader, and Nurse Benson , all of whom have gathered on the patio in the jungle-like garden, Cukrowicz begins questioning Catherine. She recalls how she and Sebastian spent their days on the beach in the Spanish town of Cabeza de Lobo. On one occasion, he drags her reluctantly into the water, causing the fabric of her white bathing suit to become transparent. A group of young men who had been watching her from the neighboring public beach start to approach but are intercepted by Sebastian. Catherine comes to realize that he is using her to attract these boys in order to proposition them for sex. Since the boys are desperate for money, Sebastian is successful in his efforts; however, he gradually becomes "fed up with the dark ones" and, being "famished for blondes", makes plans to depart for the northern countries. One scorching white-hot day, Sebastian and Catherine are beset by a team of boys begging for money. When Sebastian rejects them, they take up pursuit through the streets of the town. Sebastian attempts to flee, but the boys swarm around him at every turn. He is finally cornered among the ruins of a temple on a hilltop. In the meantime, Catherine has been frantically trying to catch up with Sebastian, but she reaches him only to see him overwhelmed at last by the boys. To her horror and revulsion, they begin to tear him apart and eat his flesh. She screams for help, to no avail. The film returns to Catherine, who has collapsed upon the ground, sobbing. Her mind undone by the shock of hearing Catherine's tale, Mrs. Venable closes Sebastian's last book of poems, the pages of which are blank, then slowly rises from her seat and takes Cukrowicz's arm. Calling him "Sebastian", she tells him not to be out in the sun for too long and that they should go inside the boat and inform the captain that they want to leave. Mrs. Venable is led away and Cukrowicz returns to check on Catherine, who has recovered. They both walk into the house together.Armand de la Verne, a lieutenant in the French cavalry and a notorious seducer, undertakes a bet that he will "obtain the favours" of a woman selected secretly by lot, before his company departs for its summer manoeuvres in a month's time. His target turns out to be Marie-Louise Rivière, a Parisian divorcée who runs a milliner's shop, and who is also being courted by the serious and respectable Victor Duverger. Marie Louise's growing attraction towards Armand is tempered by her discoveries about his reputation, while Armand's calculated strategy become undermined by his genuine emotions. A subplot follows the parallel but simpler courtship of Armand's friend and fellow officer Félix and Lucie, the young daughter of a photographer.The story examines the adult lives of two onetime teen lovers, Ken  and Sylvia , who were from different social strata. Ken was self-supporting, working as a lifeguard at Pine Island, an exclusive Maine resort, while Sylvia's nouveau riche family stayed as guests of the owners, one summer between years at college. They went on to marry different people &ndash; as it transpires, entirely the wrong people. Ken's wife Helen  turns out to be frigid and shuts him out romantically, while Sylvia's husband Bart  becomes an alcoholic, gradually costing him the family fortune. Ken buries himself in the research chemist's job he finds after college, while Sylvia devotes herself first to charity work, then motherhood. The saving grace of each marriage is their children, Sylvia's son Johnny  and Ken's daughter Molly . Ken and Sylvia meet again on Pine Island after twenty years, with Ken now wealthy through his chemistry work, while Bart has turned his family's mansion  into an inn, which is failing. Johnny and Molly meet and fall in love, while Ken and Sylvia begin to cheat on their spouses with each other. Ken and Sylvia eventually leave their spouses and marry. Bart ends up being taken to a sanatorium for treatment of his alcoholism but not after Johnny and Molly visit him requesting permission to marry as Molly is pregnant.The drama tells the story of spoiled and alcoholic millionaire Carson . During a trip to the Mojave Desert Carson breaks his leg after falling off his horse and is abandoned and left to die by Geraldine , his adulterous femme fatale wife, and his deceitful business partner Joseph Duncan . After the accident, Geraldine and Duncan supposedly drive off to seek medical aid for Carson. But, when Carson realizes the truth of his dilemma, he vows to live long enough to exact revenge against his wife and partner.The tale begins when architect Harold Berger  arrives in India to meet with Maharahaja Chandra , for whom he will build schools and hospitals. En route to the Maharahaja's palace, Berger meets a dancer named Seetha  and saves her from a tiger. Seetha, whose father was European, is promised to the Maharahaja, but she and the architect begin to fall in love. Predictably, this leads to a buildup of tension between Chandra and Berger, helped along by scheming palace courtiers. The film is also filled with action, and a highlight of it is Seetha's first ritual dance. At the end of Tiger, Seetha and Berger are imprisoned but escape into the desert just as Berger's sister and her husband, also an architect who works with Berger, arrive in Eschnapur. Chandra informs them the plans have changed; he now wants a tomb to be built.Shekar , the son of Mirazdar Gunaseelan , discovers that his cousins Gowri  and Sundar  are leading a difficult life. Gunaseelan has a doudhter whom was lost when she was a small girl. He tries to help them against his father's wishes. Angered by his father's attitude, he leaves home with his cousins. Gunaseelan's accountant Vajram ([[V. K. Ramaswamy  and wife Vadamalligai  wants to take advantage of this rift and to usurp his employer's wealth. Gunaseelan's loyal servant Poyyamozhi  tries his best to reveal Vajram's intentions, but falls to deaf ears. Greedy Vajram opposes his son Arivumathi  from wedding Ezhilarasi  since she is not from a wealthy family. Shekar marries Gowri, but Sundar leaves home since he feels that he is a burden on them. Sundar meets with an accident and loses his mental balance. He is rescued by Dr. Sumathi  who happens to be Shekar's lost sister. Gowri is admitted to Dr. Sumathi's maternity nursing home and Shekar tries stealing in order to pay the bills. Unbeknownst to Shekar, he enters Dr. Sumathi's house and was caught red handed by her. However Dr. Sumathi does not call the police but and advises Shekar and lets him go. Gowri learns about this and leaves the nursing home, humliliated by Shekars deed. Gowri delivers their first child Selvam, but dies immediately. Shekar found Gowri dead and takes Selvam along with him. Shekar takes refuge with Anthony , a school teacher who provides him with a job and a house. Sundar lives in Dr. Sumathi's house, but he remains mentally unstable. Meanwhile, Arivumathi steals from his home, marries Ezhilarasi and leaves home. Gunaseelan yearns to meet his son and goes looking for him. Vajram introduces Gunaseelan to a dancer Nalina. Gunaseelan falls for Nalina and shifts to her place along with Vajram, Vadamalligai and Poyyamozhi. Selvam meets with an accident, Poyyamaozhi sees this and bring him back home. Gunaseelan sends for Dr. Sumathi and lets's her know to return Selvam to him in the event of not finding Selvam's parents. Sundar meets Selvam and he was able to recall his past. Upon learning the truth, Sundar and Dr. Sumathi sets off to Gunaseelan's place. Meanwhile Vajram and Vadamalligai persuades Nalina to prison Gunaseelan but the plan was spoilt when a robbery takes place and she was attacked by the robber. The robber was Arivumathi who was not aware of the presence of his parents in that place. Nalina confides the truth to the police and dies where Vajram and Vadamalligai are arrested. Shekar was suspected as the robber and gets arrested instead. Poyyamozhi tracks the robber and catches Arivumathi. Ezhilarasi informs the police all Arivumathi's wrong doings and he confides all his errors and submits. Anthony reveals that Dr. Sumathi is none other than Gunaseelan's long lost daughter. Gunaseelan and Sekar are delighted with this. Sekar requests Gunaseelan to marry off Sundar to Dr. Sumathi and it was done.Lily Brannel James leaves her small home town in Kansas for New York City, where she gets herself hired by the Thomas Caraway Model Agency. She befriends former top model Mary Ashlon, who becomes her mentor. Mary is depressed about her foundering career and, following a night of excessive drinking, she commits suicide. Lily eventually becomes a very successful model. As a favor to her attorney friend Jim Leversoe, she spends some time with Steve Harleigh, a Montana copper-mine owner in New York on business. The two fall in love, but both realize nothing can come of it. After Steve goes home, he has Jim buy Lily a bracelet, but she refuses to accept it. Lily finds that success does not fill the void in her life. When Steve returns to New York to secure a loan, he runs into her. He tells her he is married. His wife Nora was left a paraplegic in an automobile accident for which he was responsible. Despite this, their feelings for each other are too strong, and they embark on an affair. Matters come to a head when Nora visits him to celebrate his birthday. On the night of Steve's birthday, Lily hosts a party too, even though Steve stays with Nora, who is making some progress in relearning to walk with crutches. Steve slips out to Lily's party and is taken aback by her self-destructive behavior. Lily decides to confront Nora and asks family friend Jim to accompany her. However, when she sees how nice Nora is and how dependent she is on her husband, Lily cannot bring herself to tell her about her involvement with Steve. On the way out, she bumps into Steve at the elevator and tells him it is over. Some time later, Lily runs into advertising executive Lee Gorrance, who had been dating Mary just prior to her death. When Lily resists his romantic advances, he predicts she will end up lonely and depressed like Mary. Upset by his comments, Lily considers ending her own life, but finally resolves to remain strong, even if she is lonely.In Noumea, New Caledonia 1943, Lee Ashley , the widow of a Paramarine Lieutenant killed on the Battle of Bloody Ridge on Guadalcanal has joined the American Red Cross on the island to entertain American servicemen. Her leader at the service club, Kate Connors  had initially been reluctant to have her assigned to New Caledonia lest she use her position as a pilgrimage to find out about her late husband. In addition to entertaining, serving the soldiers and giving French lessons, the Red Cross women are expected to help with the wounded that Lee initially refuses to do. A Marine Raider battalion comes to New Caledonia after fighting in the South Pacific. Their commander, Lt Col Black  is against the Red Cross women treating his men softly; he states that the only place for women in war are "skirts" that the men chase and the "sweethearts" that wait for them back home. He changes his mind when he tries to seduce the attractive Lee who initially refuses his advances. Lt Col Black decides to gain her interest by pretending he knew Lee's late husband and was with him shortly before he died. Though Lee despises the Colonel's arrogance and demands, she is fascinated by him and falls in love with him. Another member of the battalion is the Navy Chaplain, Lieutenant Junior Grade Holmes  whom Kate notices is a changed, silent, and saddened man since she last knew him. During a battle the Chaplain had gathered some Marines together in prayer that a supposedly dead Japanese soldier used as a target for his hand grenade killing several, and wounding their sergeant with a spinal injury. Lt Col Black demotes the wounded sergeant in rank because he should have known better than to let his men gather in the open. Black constantly harasses the Chaplain by never letting him forget that his presence caused their deaths, with the bodies of the Marines shielding the Chaplain from any injury. Holmes's guilt is compounded by a tropical fever and exhaustion from working that has left its toll. Another man in the battalion is Private Eddie Wodcik ([[Dewey Martin  that Kate had adopted and raised in New York when his parents and sister were burned to death in a tenement fire. Kate loves him like her own child and he reciprocates when he is not being watched by his fellow Marines. Eddie feels that Lee looks exactly like his sister would have if she hadn't died and becomes her protector, promising violent retribution to anyone who doesn't show Lee respect. Eddie demonstrates his ability by giving a disrespectful sailor  a jiu jitsu throw to the floor. Lee and the Colonel have dinner on board an American warship. A former neighbor of Lee is now a naval officer ([[Peter Hansen  aboard and is present at dinner. Lee and the naval officer spend the evening talking about their pre-war civilian lives in a wealthy community. An angry Lt. Colonel Black later relates to Lee his life of childhood poverty as a half Indian in Montana. When the Raiders are shipped out for a couple months, Lee discovers she is pregnant and the Colonel has a wife in Washington. She later learns things about her husband that she never knew. The hot headed Eddie also discovers what his Colonel has done to Lee.Bud Corliss  is an ambitious student who is wooing Dorothy Kingship  purely for her father's mining fortune. When he discovers that Dorothy is pregnant with his child, he realizes she is quite likely to be disinherited by her wealthy family. He assures Dorothy that he'll take care of her, yet he hesitates when Dorothy insists on marrying. Bud then murders Dorothy and stages it in a way that it appears to be a suicide. He then reaches out to her sister Ellen  with the hopes of marrying her in order to ingratiate himself with her father. After a couple of months Ellen finds evidence to question the suicide verdict, and then discovers Bud knew Dorothy. Ellen struggles to avenge her sister and save her own life.Trilogy of stories: episode "Elizabeth" is about American war-widow who goes to Italy where her husband was in WW II; episode "Jeanne" tells the life of Jeanne d'Arc; episode "Lysistrata" is about Athenian wives, adaptation of the Greek play.Cheryl Draper , an ex-Nazi, sets up the woman to make her seem insane and she's locked up in a mental institution. With the aid of a sympathetic yet skeptical Police Lt. Lawrence Mathews , the woman is released and confronts the killer.Set in Kerala of the 1950s, Newspaper Boy focuses on the lives of Appu , the young protagonist of the film, and the members of his impoverished family. Appu's father Sankaran Nair  earns a meagre living as a worker in a printing press. He is easily exploited in his work — he cannot even muster the courage to ask his employer for overdue wages. Nair's wife, Kalyani Amma , takes care of their three children, Leela , Appu and Balan . Kalyani Amma helps her husband by taking up the job of a housemaid in rich Madhava Menon's  house. She is treated like a slave by Menon's wife Lakshmi Amma . Extreme poverty forces Leela to stop her education. However Nair manages to provide education to Appu, his only hope. Adding oil to the fire, one day, Nair injures his hand during his work in the press. He could not go to work for two-three weeks. The employer fires Nair from the job during this period. He offers Nair the payment for those days, but Nair refuses it, although his family is in dire need of money. Nair tries to find another job but in vain. He cannot even pay the house-rent. House owner Kesavan Pillai  asks Nair either to pay the rent or to leave the house. Soon Nair dies of extreme poverty and illness. After his demise, the family sinks even deeper into poverty. The whole family is now on Appu's shoulders. Appu finds no way to save his family from this situation. Kittummavan , a kind-hearted neighbour, is his only help. Kittummavan asks his son Raghavan  to take Appu to Madras and find him a job. Appu leaves to Madras, where he gets the job as a servant in rich Sreedhara Menon's  house. Menon's wife Kamalamma  behaves brutally to Appu, even worse than Lakshmi Amma behaved to his mother, and he had to leave the job soon. Appu desperately wants to return to his home. He wanders in the street searching for a job to arrange money for his return. He befriends with Pappan , and both of them take small jobs to earn money for Appu's return. Meanwhile, Kalyani Amma, who is suffering from tuberculosis, is thrown out of the house by Kesavan Pillai. Leela and Balan begs for help from Madhavan Nair. He gives them ten rupees and asks them not to come again. Raghavan informs Appu his mother's condition and arranges money for his return. Kalyani Amma dies of illness before Appu reaches. The film ends with Appu taking up the job of a newspaper boy to look after his brother and sister.Set in turn-of-the-century New York, wealthy playboy Charles Hill  is causing difficulties for his guardian, Aunt Lettie  and lawyer, Max . Prone to fall in love then ditching his showgirl brides-to-be at the altar, the compensation bills are mounting. After the most recent episode, he hears Angela  leading a Salvation Army band in song. He falls in love at first sight and when she scoffs at him, telling him that if he were in love his feet would leave the ground, he promptly floats high into the air. He pursues her, even vowing to do an honest day's work for the first time in his life. After various attempts to convince her, Angela's feeling finally cause her feet to leave the ground. After a couple of misunderstandings are resolved, they float into the air together, to a chorus of well-wishers below.In her hometown of Rabbit Creek, vivacious teenager Lotta Crabtree is thrilled when the famed performer Lola Montez comes to town in 1863. She wants to become a singer like Lola herself someday, although parents Mary Ann and John Crabtree, who run a boarding house, don't necessarily approve. Lotta has a couple of admirers, the local boy Mart Taylor and a mature newcomer to town, Tom Richmond, who is informed that Lotta is only 16. A boarder named Cornelius with a surefire way to win at roulette lures Lotta's dad into a game, where he loses all of his money plus the boarding house. Aware of the way Lola Montez made a fortune singing in mining camps for men who can't get to a theater, Lotta sets out on the road to do likewise. The miners like her, but don't throw gold pieces her way until she strips off part of her costume and gives them quite a show. Tom is apparently a professional gambler and wins a San Francisco theater in a card game. Lotta becomes a star there, then travels East to perform in New York. Older and wiser in two years, she learns that Tom has been committing robberies to raise money for the Confederate army in the Civil War, which she appreciates, being a Southern girl. The war ends but she sings "Dixie" on stage in New York, to catcalls from the audience. Lotta appeases them by saying the victors should be generous to those who have lost. Tom has been reported near death from an injury, but at that very minute, he enters the theater to Lotta's delight.It is 1917, and Portugal is feeling the aftereffects of a storm of Masonic antireligious sentiment and the violent overthrow of the government by socialist forces in its 5 October 1910 revolution. Churches in Lisbon are boarded up. Many priests, monks and friars are shown being fingerprinted, photographed and registered as  criminals before being jailed. The rural town of Fatima is small enough to have escaped much of this persecution; their church remains open, and most of the people are reasonably devout. Watching their flocks and playing in a field outside town on May 15 , Lucia dos Santos  and her cousins Jacinta Marto  and Francisco Marto  decide to pray their version of the Rosary by yelling out, "Hail Mary!" but not finishing the prayer. In the midst of this activity they hear a clap of thunder and see a flash of lightning. Thinking it is about to rain, the children gather their sheep and head for home. Another flash of lightning causes them to run straight into an unusual "cloud of light" surrounding a little tree on which a lady stands. Speaking slowly and gently, the lady asks them to return on the 13th of each month and to offer their sufferings to God for the salvation of sinners. She entreats them to say the Rosary for world peace. Later, they encounter their agnostic friend Hugo  who tells them it is best not to reveal the vision to anyone else, but of course on returning home, Jacinta immediately divulges her sightings. Jacinta and Francisco's parents believe the story, but Lucia's mother reacts with disgust and subjects her daughter to emotional and physical abuse. She forbids Lucia to return to the Cova, but Lucia does so anyway on the next month's appearance , and is told then that her cousins will die and go to heaven "soon", while she will live a long life in holy service. The parish priest suggests the visions might be from Satan. The local authorities close the Fatima church until the priest can convince the parishioners that no visions have or will happen. The next month, on July 13, the lady appears again, predicting "another and worse war"  will happen if the world doesn't stop sinning. She also predicts evil will come from Russia if that country is unconverted. Kidnapped by provincial administrator Arturo Santos, , the children are threatened with death if they don't change their story. Trying to frighten them, he has first Jacinta, then Francisco dragged into another room. Jacinta's terrified screams convince Lucia that her cousins are dead, but she refuses to deny what she's seen. Warning her that she's about to experience "the full treatment", Santos reunites her with her cousins, who are very much alive, then throws them all in jail. There they find Hugo, who stands by them as they convince all the prisoners to join in the Rosary. Unable to find any prosecutable evidence, Arturo  frees the children, who find that the entire population of Fatima has been standing outside waiting for them. On October 13, when the lady promised "a sign that will make them believe," about forty thousand people arrive, waiting through a torrential downpour. At precisely noon the clouds part and the sun shines brightly upon all the people—then the sun shifts through a rainbow of colors and appears to drop toward the ground, in what many have described as the Miracle of the Sun. Many people panic, some pray or watch calmly, and a few disabled people are healed. As the sun returns to normal we see Hugo standing in the middle of the kneeling crowd, his hat still on. Removing it, he says "Only the fool sayeth there is no God." A short epilogue shows the huge basilica where the tree once stood. At the end of the movie, it is  and they are in a big, new basilica . Inside, Lucia is a nun praying before the tomb where her cousins are buried, with the converted Hugo at her side.Alice Chicoy  is the wife of driver Johnny . He owns a small and rundown little bus that makes side trips. Alice is the owner of a little restaurant and likes liquor a bit too much. Unhappy with what has become of her life, she decides to "surprise" her husband mid-way through his bus trip. Among the passengers, Camille Oakes  is a shamed burlesque dancer on the way to a well-paying job in San Juan. Camille gets caught up in a flirtation with traveling salesman Ernest Horton . Most of the story takes place on the charter bus. Slowly making their way through a treacherous California mountain region, the passengers undergo a variety of life-altering experiences. The journey has its most profound effects upon the iconoclastic salesman and the lonely stripper.After a young woman, Louise Graham, witnesses the murder of a crime boss, she flees the city, deciding to hide out in Glacier National Park. She is followed by two men, Matt Hallett and Paul Adams, one of whom is a federal agent, sworn to protect her and bring her back as a witness, the other a ruthless killer, determined to murder her.The film opens in a church where a man named Francisco sees an attractive young woman from across the room. They have seen each other many times before, and she seems reluctant to engage him. She leaves the church and escapes Francisco, despite his attempt to chase after her. Another day, Francisco finds her again in the church. He works up the courage to speak with her, but she seems uninterested, and insists that they can never speak to each other again. Francisco follows her to a restaurant and sees her meeting with Raul, a close friend of his. Francisco later meets with Raul, who divulges that he and the young lady, Gloria, are engaged to be married. Francisco conspires to woo Gloria away from Raul by throwing a party and arranging for the couple to attend. When Gloria finds out that Francisco is the host, she seems wary of this ruse, but ultimately falls for his charm. The film jumps to the future, where Gloria and Francisco are married, and have been for quite some time. One day, Raul is driving through the city and finds Gloria. Though hesitant at first, she tells him of how horrible her marriage is, because Francisco has turned out to be a very jealous and domineering husband. For instance, Francisco had scolded her for being too familiar with other men, and even had an altercation with one of them. Throughout the film, Francisco is in the midst of a lawsuit regarding his property holdings, which causes him considerable duress. For her part, Gloria is frustrated, saddened and ultimately frightened by her husband's treatment. She believes she has always acted innocently and is genuinely surprised by Francisco's accusations, but no one will take her side. Gloria's mother believes Francisco to be a decent man , and even their Pastor  admonishes Gloria for her untoward behavior with other men, and vouchsafes for her husband . After Francisco finds out that she confessed everything to Father Velasco, he shoots her with a revolver loaded with blanks in order to "teach her a lesson." But Gloria tells Raul that Francisco became more caring and forgiving after this episode. Relations between husband and wife become better for a time, but then Francisco takes her alone up the spire of a church and , begins strangling her and dangles her perilously over the railing. Gloria pulls herself from danger and runs away. It is only at this point that Gloria encounters Raul and tells him of her plight. Raul suggests that she leave her husband. Gloria returns home willingly, but Francisco sees that someone brought her to the house, and demands to know who it was. He is devastated to learn that Gloria had been with Raul. The pattern of Francisco's jealously is unbroken and he contemplates divorce. But he seeks reconciliation after apparently realizing that Gloria has never in fact had an affair. Gloria confesses that "she was confused," but that she had to confide in somebody, and that somebody was Raul. When Francisco realizes that she had told Raul about their marital problems, he regards it as an utter betrayal, and says angrily that he can't forgive her for it. That night, Francisco attempts to kill Gloria in her sleep with a noose. As he is trying to place the noose, she awakes and screams. This scares him off, and he cowers back into his room for the night. The next morning he finds that she has run away. Francisco gets his revolver, and runs off to search for her. He first goes to Raul's office, but he is not there. Outside, he thinks he sees Raul and Gloria riding in a car together. He chases after them all the way to their destination: the church. Inside, he discovers that it is not Raul and Gloria after all, but another couple. Francisco descends into madness, and hallucinates that the entire congregation is laughing at him. He sees the priest, a good friend of his, laughing at him, and attempts to charge the alter and strangle him. He is detained. Much later, Gloria, Raul, and a small child pay a visit to a monastery. It is revealed that Francisco has been taken in by the monks and has been taught in their ways. They meet with the head monk, but do not talk with Francisco, not wishing to reopen old wounds. Gloria and Raul have named their child "Francisco." The head monk later tells Francisco of their visit, which he had already observed from afar. He confirms Francisco's suspicion that the child is the son of Gloria and Raul. Francisco affirms that, ultimately, "time has proven my point."In fifteenth century France, the irreverent beggar François Villon  is crowned "king for a day" by King Louis XI . He patriotically rallies his fellow beggars to fight when Paris is invaded by the Burgundians. Kathryn Grayson stars as the high-born heroine, and Rita Moreno as the lusty low-born wench, whose love for Villon eventually costs her her life.The story centers on the memories of a writer Harry  who is on safari in Africa. He has contracted a severely infected wound from a thorn prick, and lies outside his tent awaiting a slow death. The loss of mobility brings self-reflection. He remembers past years and how little he has accomplished in his writing. He realizes that although he has seen and experienced wonderful and astonishing things during his life, he had never made a record of the events. His status as a writer is undermined by his reluctance to actually write. He also quarrels with the woman with him, blaming her for his living decadently and forgetting his failure to write of what really matters to him: his experiences among poor and "interesting" people, rather than the smart Europeans with whom he has been with lately. Despite the unwanted attentions of a witch doctor, he lives to see morning come. He watches vultures gather in a tree as he lies in the evening. He recapitulates his life and talks to his current girl-friend. He tells her about his past experiences; then arguing, then coming to realization about his attitude, and finally reaching a sort of peace, even love, with her.A rich man meets a poor woman, A`isha, who sells lottery tickets in the streets. He is shocked at how her appearance resembles that of his recently deceased daughter. The rich man offers to pay her father a monthly fee to adopt her. The father accepts, and after finding out how attached the rich man is to A'isha, the father tries to blackmail him for more money. The police find out and jail the father. Released from jail the father finds that A'isha has completed her studies. He demands a large amount of money from the rich man, but when he refuses to do so, the father takes her by force. The film ends as A`isha returns to her stepfather and marries her love, Dr. Sami.Nina and Robert Tracey  are a couple who have been married for eight years who decide to get a divorce after suffering marriage troubles. Robert takes up with his womanising Navy buddy Charlie Nelson  while Nina looks to her interfering mother for guidance. Robert decides to spend the night with Janis , a Marilyn Monroe-type character who finds the dashing Robert quite cute, but he feels uncomfortable with Janis and any other girls that he dates. Nina also tries to date other men but fails as she is still in love with Robert. Although they try to ignore each other any time that they accidentally meet, it is obvious that the past is not dead. Then one night, they find themselves in a nightclub, dancing the mambo together.In the small Irish town of Rathcullen, County Kerry, Darby O'Gill  is the aging caretaker of Lord Fitzpatrick's  estate, where he lives in the nearby gatehouse with his lovely, almost grown, daughter Katie . Darby spends most of his time in the town pub, regaling his friends with tales of his attempts to catch the leprechauns, in particular, their king, Brian Connors . Darby is past his prime as a laborer, so Lord Fitzpatrick decides to retire him on half-pay and give him and Katie another cottage to live in, rent-free, and give his job to a young Dubliner named Michael McBride . Darby begs Michael not to tell Katie that he is being replaced, to which Michael reluctantly agrees. That very night, Darby is captured by the leprechauns while chasing Cleopatra, his runaway horse , on top of the fairy mountain Knocknasheega. Darby learns that King Brian has brought him into the mountain so that Darby can avoid the shameful admission to Katie about losing his job. However, Darby tricks the leprechauns into embarking on a fox hunt by playing "The Fox Chase" for them on a beautiful Stradivarius violin, loaned to him by King Brian. The leprechauns mount their tiny white horses and leave through a large crack in the mountainside wall, from which Darby escapes. King Brian, angry for being made a fool of, comes to fetch Darby, and another battle of wits ensues over a jug of poitín. Darby traps King Brian by getting him so drunk that he does not notice the sunrise, which strips him of his powers until the next sunset. Trapped, Brian is forced to grant Darby three wishes before he can return home. Darby wisely makes his first wish be that King Brian not return to Knocknasheega, but to remain at his beck and call for a fortnight , giving him time to think of two other, equally wise wishes. King Brian is furious, but forced to comply. The wily leprechaun king manages to trick Darby into  wasting his second wish by appearing only as a rabbit in Darby's burlap sack, causing Darby unwittingly to say to Michael: "I wish you could see him [the King]". King Brian meets Darby halfway by appearing to both Michael and Katie in his true form in their dreams. Darby decides that he wants to use his third and last wish to ensure Katie's happiness. King Brian says to Darby that what Katie probably wants most of all is a "good, steady lad with temperate ways". Someone, in short, like Michael. After a rocky beginning, Katie and Michael begin to show signs of growing affection for each other. Katie believes Michael is merely seasonal help, as her father could not bring himself to break the news of his retirement . However, Michael has an arrogant rival in Pony Sugrue , the town bully with his eyes on both Katie and Michael's job. Katie, angered at finding out the truth about her father's retirement from Pony's unpleasantly meddlesome mother , injures herself in a fall on Knocknasheega while trying to catch Cleopatra at night. The banshee appears, heralding Katie's death and sending the cóiste-bodhar, a spectral coach driven by a dullahan, to carry her soul off to the land of the dead. Desperate, Darby elects to use his final wish to go in his daughter's place. King Brian is deeply saddened at Darby's wish, but grants it, but once Darby is on his way to the next world, King Brian reappears in the Death Coach and tricks Darby into making a final fourth wish . Because he is only allowed three wishes, this negates all the previous wishes and spares Darby's life. Darby is saved and King Brian has  the last laugh in their running battle of wits. Katie's fever has broken and she and Michael reveal their love for each other. Michael also fights Pony Sugrue at the pub; getting his just revenge for Pony's attempt to get him fired by clubbing him on the head and pouring whiskey all over him to make him appear drunken and incompetent. Michael soundly thrashes Pony and knocks him cold. Finally, Darby and Michael depart arm-in-arm, joining Katie outside in the wagon for a happy ending, with Michael and Katie singing a final duet together of "Pretty Irish Girl" .Mary Adams  is a waitress in a waterfront bar run by a man who had swindled her father years before. One night, she climbs in the man's bedroom window and steals $25,000 from under his pillow. The police arrive the next morning and, to escape pursuit and reprisal of the bar-owner, she confesses her crime. When The money is not recovered, Mary is sent to prison for five years, but earns early release for good behavior. While on parole, she gets another waterfront waitressing job. Dragomie Damitrof , the owner of this bar, is a foreign scoundrel father-figure type. Mary believes that she is being watched by the authorities stil trying to recover the money, and is somewhat un-trusting of everyone. Mary meets Johnny , and soon begins to entertain thoughts of helping her new boyfriend with a business loan. Then Dragomie nearly loses the bar in a card game and she promises to give him enough money to delay the debtors. Not being able to herself retrieve the money, Mary draws him a map to the location where she buried the loot. When Dragomie realizes this is the same girl that stole money from her infamous employer three years earlier on this same waterfront dock, he tells her. When returning from the cache, Dragomie bitterly tells that he could not find the money and angrily throws her out of his home. Some days later, she finds the bar appears to be under new ownership and the boyfriend is worried about her. Upon closer inspection, it develops that the bar is still owned by Dragomie and it is reported that he has taken a vacation and moved into fancy new digs, apparently finding the money after all. With vengeance in her heart, she sets out confront him, and recover the money. In the ensuing argument, she stikes him on the head and leaves him for dead. Deciding that the remaining recovered money has caused her too many problems, she donates it to an orphanage and confesses to her assault on Dragomie.A young street urchin , half-starved and homeless, finds a locket containing the likeness of Queen Victoria . Not recognizing her, he is told that she is the "mother of all England". Taking the remark literally, he journeys to Windsor Castle to see her. When he is caught by the palace guards, the boy is mistakenly thought to be part of an assassination plot against the Queen. Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli  realizes that the boy is innocent and pleads for him in Parliament, delivering a speech that indirectly criticizes the Queen for withdrawing from public life. The Queen is infuriated by the speech, but she is genuinely moved upon meeting the boy for the first time, and once again enters public life. Disraeli's long speech in the House of Commons  appears to be uninterrupted by cutting &ndash; a remarkable feat by Guinness.Tony "le Stéphanois" has served a five-year prison term for a jewel heist, and is now out on the street and down on his luck. His friend Jo approaches Tony about another jewel heist in which they and Mario would stealthily cut the glass on a Parisian jeweler's front window and grab some gems. Tony opts not to participate. Tony learns that his old girlfriend, Mado, has now aligned herself with Pierre Grutter. Finding Mado at Grutter's nightclub, he invites her back to his rundown flat. Mado has been well-kept, and Tony savagely beats her for being so deeply involved with Grutter. Tony changes his mind about the heist; he now accepts on the condition that they hit the jeweler's safe, not the window. Mario, an Italian, suggests they employ the services of his compatriot César, a safecracker. The four team up and plan a way to work around the ingenious alarm system guarding the jewelry shop. Casing the store, the group decides to drill through the ceiling from an upstairs flat which will be vacant on a Sunday night extending into Monday morning before the jeweler returns. The suspenseful break-in completed, the criminals seem to have triumphed. Without the others' knowledge, César has pocketed a diamond ring as a gift for his mistress Viviane, a chanteuse at Grutter's club. The four men arrange to fence the loot with a London contact. Meanwhile, Grutter has seen Mado and her injuries; Mado breaks off their relationship. From this, Grutter infers that Tony is at the root of Mado's decision; he then gives drugs to his heroin-addicted brother and tells him to murder Tony. Grutter sees the diamond César gave to Viviane and realizes that César and Tony were responsible for the jewel theft. Grutter forces César to confess. Seeking revenge and money, Grutter's gang brutally murders Mario and his wife Ida. Tony retrieves Mario's share of the jewels and pays for a splendid funeral for him. Tony goes looking for Grutter and finds the captive César, who confesses to ratting him out to Grutter. With regret, Tony kills César. Meanwhile, Grutter's thugs have kidnapped Jo's five-year-old son Tonio, demanding that Tony give over the loot or young Tonio will be killed. The London fence arrives with the cash, which now seems pointless to Jo, who along with his wife, is tormented with worry for their son. Seeking the boy, Tony tracks him down at Grutter's country house and kills Grutter's brothers Rémi and Louis to save him. On the way back to Paris, Tony is told that Jo has cracked under the pressure and has taken the money to the house for Grutter. Grutter kills Jo, and then is killed by Tony, who is mortally wounded. Bleeding profusely, Tony drives maniacally back to Paris and delivers Tonio home safely. Tony dies in his car as police and bystanders close in on him and his remaining loot.Sir Philip Ashlow , his neglected wife, Lady Ashlow  and his best friend Henry Brittingham-Brett  are shipwrecked on a desert island. This potential ménage à trois where the two men compete for the lady's attention is interrupted by the unexpected arrival of a fourth inhabitant of the island.The son of the gardener, Thota Raamudu  falls in love with Indumathi, the princess of Ujjain . When he faces resistance from the King, he goes off into the world to return as a successful man. He is approached by a Sorcerer , who actually plans to sacrifice a young, brave lad to the goddess Pataala Bhairavi  to attain a magic statuette, which grants any wish. Raamudu fits the profile; and unwittingly, agrees to help the Sorcerer so that he can attain the riches etc. the King asked for his daughter's hand in marriage. However, Raamudu finds about the evil plan and instead he sacrifices the sorcerer and obtains Pataala Bhairavi. Raamudu wishes to be a King, have a grander palace than the King etc. to be welcomed by the Ujjain royalty. The King lives up to his promise and grants him his daughter in marriage. Sadajapa, the Sorcerer's apprentice, finds his master at the Pataala Bhairavi site, and brings him back to life. During this time, the King's brother-in-law and the princess' Uncle  is upset at upcoming wedding and determines to hang himself instead of witnessing the marriage. The Sorcerer catches him in time and promises him everything Raamudu has  in exchange for the small statue which Raamudu has hidden in the room. He manages to steal the Pataala Bhairavi and unwittingly changes Raamudu's fate. The Socerer then wishes to kidnap the Princess and takes all of Thota Raamudu's wealth, leaving him in his original state. Pledging to bring back his love, Raamudu and his cousin, Anji, travels to the Sorcerer's lair. The story ends with the marriage of Raamudu and Indumathi with the Uncle's, Queen, King's, and Raamudu's mother's blessing. As it turns out, Anji, marries the Princess's servant and best friend. The Sorcerer is dead, and all is well.The film tells the story of the life and execution of Barbara Graham  a prostitute and convicted perjurer. Graham is the product of a broken home, and works luring men into fixed card games. At one point, she attempts to go straight but marries the "wrong man," and has a child. He is a drug addict and she ends their relationship. When her life falls apart, she returns to her former professions and becomes involved with men who have murdered a woman. The police arrest them, and her, and her companions accuse her of the murder to reduce their own chances of going to the gas chamber. She claims her innocence, but is convicted and executed.Ole Offor  a young graduate from agricultural college, returns home to discover that rumors about his fiance  are true—she has been cheating on him. Ole rejects her thin denials and decides to move to Canada to start a new life. In the meantime, Ole's father, Hans , meets with an old childhood friend, Munk , who is seriously ill. Munk owns a beautiful old stud farm called Enekaer, but he has left it nearly bankrupt. Hans promises Munk that he will help. Hans asks Ole to become the manager of Enekaer and see if it can be saved. Munk purchased some fine ponies of a red breed which he had hoped could be trained as winning trotters and save the farm. However, his bad heart left him bed-ridden. Munk's second wife, Zita  has been having an affair with the vicious horse trainer, Willers . When Munk discovers this, he sues for divorce, but Willers now owns outstanding notes on the farm. Ole arrives and meets Munk's daughter, Bente . The daughter from Munk's first marriage, Bente is sweet woman with a slightly crippled leg from a horse riding accident. Ole quickly becomes taken with Bente. Willers is paid off by Ole and his father and told to disappear. Munk, on his death bed, tells Ole and Bente that his last wish is for them to marry. Enekaer has one fine stallion named Junker that Munk hoped could win the 15,000 Kroner prize at the trotting derby. But Willers had ruined Junker's nerves. Ole and Bente care for Junker and he regains strength and speed. Ole falls in love with Bente and proposes. They marry but the marriage is uneasy because Bente feels that Ole married her out of charity. One day Zita Munk returns but Ole and Bente refuse her admittance to Enekaer. They are called into court because Zita possesses Munk life insurance which gives her financial control of Enekaer. The court gives Ole and Bente a brief time to raise the money or give up the farm. They are despondent, but after all they have been through, Bente finally has realized that Ole truly loves her. On Derby day, Ole decides to race Junker himself. Everyone at Enekaer bets all of their money on Ole and Junker. Ole races to victory and in happiness, Ole and Bente return to Enekaer.Felice Sciosciammocca  is a penniless populated by Naples, which lives by the day by writing and sharing the house with his son Peppiniello, the companion Luis , his friend Pasquale , a professional street photographer, accompanied by the wife Concetta  and his daughter Pupella . One day the Marquis Eugene  knocks at their door asking for a favor: he is in love with the beautiful Gemma , a professional dancer, but her family opposed the union because she is not noble. The girl's father instead, Don Gaetano, a former chef became very rich after inheriting the property of his master, he is happy to allow the relationship because intermarry with the noble would be his dream, but pretend to know the parents of the young. The Marquis and then asks Happy Easter with his wife and daughter to dress up and pretend to be his noble family and to stand with him at the home of Gemma. The situation is complicated because Peppiniello , fed up with accusations of his stepmother, and above all driven by hunger, went to work as maids in their house of Don Gaetano, who works with his partner Vincent, acting Butler, who agreed to keep him pretending to be her son. Don Gaetano not aware of the staging, and not only gave his daughter's hand but he can  to get the "privilege" of having the noble family of the Marquis at lunch, which also participates Luigino , his son, in love with Pupella. But the twists are imminent; woman Bettina , Gemma's personal maid, is the wife of Felix, who left years before, tired of his infidelities. Happy he makes peace with Bettina, showing their son Peppiniello after all this time . As if that were not enough women Luis, who had taken part in the fiction, is a surprise, and by arguing with Felice discover the deception. It will be a twist to resolve the situation: Gemma is courted by the time Mr. Baby , which is none other but the Marquis Ottavio Favetti, father of Eugene. The Marquis discovered the double identity of her father and forced him to consent to his engagement to Gemma. So don Gaetano blesses the union between the two young men, as well as that of Luigi and Pupella, and the meeting of Felice and Bettina.Nickie Ferrante , a well-known playboy and dilettante in the arts, meets Terry McKay  aboard the transatlantic ocean liner SS Constitution en route from Europe to New York. Each is involved with someone else. After a series of chance meetings aboard the ship, they establish a friendship. When Terry joins Nickie on a brief visit to his grandmother when the ship anchors near her home on the Mediterranean coast, she sees Nickie with new eyes and their feelings blossom into love. During their visit, it is revealed that Nickie has had a talent for painting, but has dropped said trait due to his critical attitude towards his own art. As the ship returns to New York City, they agree to reunite at the top of the Empire State Building in six months' time, if they have succeeded in ending their relationships and starting new careers. On the day of their rendezvous, Terry, in her haste to reach the Empire State Building, is struck down by a car while crossing a street. Gravely injured, she is rushed to the hospital. Meanwhile, Nickie, waiting for her at the observation deck at the top of the building, is unaware of the accident and, after many hours, finally concedes at midnight that she will not arrive, believing that she has rejected him. After the accident Terry, now unable to walk, refuses to contact Nickie, wanting to conceal her disability. Instead, she finds work as a music teacher. Nickie has pursued his talent as a painter and has his work displayed by an old friend, an art shop owner. Six months after the accident, she sees Nickie with his former fiancée at the ballet, which she herself is attending with her former boyfriend. Nickie does not notice her condition because she is seated and only says hello as he passes her. Nickie finally learns Terry's address and, on Christmas Eve, makes a surprise visit to her. Although he steers the conversation to make her explain her actions, Terry merely dodges the subject, never leaving the couch on which she sits. As he is leaving, Nickie mentions a painting that he had been working on when they originally met, and that it was just given away at the art shop to a woman who liked it but had no money. He is about to say that the woman was in a wheelchair when he pauses, suddenly suspecting why Terry has been sitting unmoving on the couch. He walks into her bedroom and sees his painting hanging on the wall, and a wheelchair concealed there. He now knows why she did not keep their appointment. The film ends with the two in a tight embrace, each realizing that the other's love endures. In closing, Terry says, "If you can paint, I can walk; anything is possible, don't you think?"Set in Puerto Rico, where Charles "Chick" Graham  settled down after the war to run a small business with his old Army buddy, now his brother-in-law, Buster Cox , Graham comes home one evening to find his wife, Cora , acting as if he is an insane stranger. He finds that a double has taken his place. There is a man who looks exactly like him, Albert "Bert" Rand , playing cards and drinking in his living room. Cora and Buster, and even Graham's dog, do not recognize him and think the double is him. Meanwhile, Graham's face has shown up on the front page of newspapers as a bank robber in Miami who made away with half a million dollars. As he runs from the police, he attempts to solve the mystery with the help of an old girlfriend, Mary Davis , whom he jilted to marry Cora. Mary's protective brother, Walt Davis , is wary, but soon joins in trying to figure out the puzzle. Graham's criminal double attempts to have him killed by hiring an attack dog specialist to have a Doberman go after him. The evil double has been in on this sinister plan with Cora and her brother, Buster, since before Graham married her. Intriguingly, Barry Nelson was the first actor to portray James Bond, starring in a 1954 television version of Casino Royale opposite Peter Lorre.Alison Kirbe is a young London girl who has just found out she has inherited a Texas ranch from an old soldier she had befriended during World War II. Mistakenly assuming she is now the owner of a small empire, she crosses the Atlantic Ocean by boat. On her way, she meets Terence Keath, a fellow passenger heavily in debt to casino owner Lucky Reilly. To pay off his debts, he attempts to marry rich and starts to seduce Alison, as he thinks she is a wealthy heiress. Another person who is attracted to Alison is Jeremy Taylor, a millionaire bachelor who is accompanied by his attorney Matthew Kinston. The following days she enjoys the attention she is receiving from Terence, Jeremy and Matthew, but rejects them all. She feels most attracted to Matthew, but he mistakenly confronts her of being part of a scheme. Trying to hurt Matthew, she borrows money from Terence and buys an expensive present for Jeremy, while posing as a wealthy heiress. After arriving in America, Alison decides to stay in New York for a week before traveling to Texas. Matthew, meanwhile, tries to find more information on the ranch she has inherited, which makes him suspect her of scheming Jeremy all the more. Matthew confronts Alison at a casino, where she is gambling with Terence and Jeremy. He soon apologizes, however, and they kiss not much later. Terence and Jeremy, who are witnesses of the kiss, are shocked that she prefers a pennyless attorney over them. The next day, Matthew finds out Alison's ranch is not worth anything and confronts her again with swindling Jeremy. Alison bursts out in tears, mad at Matthew for turning an honest and good-hearted inheritance into a supposed scheme. That night, Alison finds out about Terence's financial situation and tries to help him out by offering Reilly to pay off Terence's debts. It proves unnecessary, though, as Jeremy is prepared to pay for the entire debt. Afterwards, the three men rush to the hotel, where they propose to Alison all at the same time. Alison enthusiastically accepts Matthew's proposal and the other men soon move on, hitting on other women only moments later.Lorelei Lee  and Dorothy Shaw  are showgirls and best friends. Lorelei has a passion for diamonds, knowing that attracting a rich husband is one of the only ways a woman of the 1950s can succeed economically. She is engaged to Gus Esmond , a naive nerd willing to do or buy anything for her. He, however, is under the control of his wealthy, upper-class father who calls him twice a day. Dorothy, on the other hand, is looking for love, attracted only by men who are good-looking and fit. Lorelei has planned for Gus and her to marry in France, but Esmond, Sr. stops his son from sailing, believing that Lorelei is bad for him. Lorelei's job requires that she go and she does. Gus gives her a letter of credit, warning her to behave because, if his father hears rumors of bad behavior on her part, his father will certainly prohibit their marriage. Unbeknownst to them, Esmond, Sr. has hired a private detective, Ernie Malone , to spy on Lorelei. Malone, however, immediately falls in love with Dorothy. During the Atlantic crossing, Dorothy has already been drawn to the members of the Olympic athlete team, and is disappointed that they are required to go to bed right at the shank of the evening. Lorelei meets the rich and foolish Sir Francis "Piggy" Beekman , the owner of a diamond mine, and is attracted by his wealth and naively returns his geriatric flirtations. Piggy is entranced and his wife, annoyed. Lady Beekman  proudly shows Lorelei her diamond tiara. Lorelei invites the old gent to her and Dorothy's cabin, whereupon he recounts his travels to Africa. Malone spies through the window and takes pictures of Piggy hugging Lorelei under the guise of explaining how a python squeezes a goat. Dorothy catches Malone walking away nonchalantly after taking pictures of Lorelei and Piggy. She tells Lorelei, who fears for her reputation. They come up with a scheme to recover the incriminating film. They invite Malone for drinks, spill water on his lap, take his pants off to dry them out, and find the film in his pants pocket. Lorelei promptly prints and hides the negatives. Piggy is relieved his wife won't see the pictures. Lorelei, feeling she deserves a reward, persuades Piggy to give her his wife's diamond tiara as a thank-you present. But then Malone reveals that he has taped Lorelei's and Piggy's conversations, for which Dorothy scolds him. Malone implies Lorelei is a golddigger and, when Dorothy dismisses him out of hand, admits that he himself is a liar. When Dorothy tells Lorelei she is falling for Malone, Lorelei chastises her for choosing a poor man when she could as easily have a rich man – and diamonds. They arrive in Paris and spend time shopping, but are then kicked out of the hotel; Lorelei's letter of credit has been cancelled because of what Gus's father has learned from Malone. When Gus shows up at their show, Lorelei rebuffs him. It is at this point that Lorelei performs "Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend," the musical number whose lyrics explain why and how women need to pursue men with money in order to pay their rent and buy food.  While Lorelei and Dorothy fulfill their Paris nightclub engagement, Lady Beekman  has filed charges regarding her missing tiara, and Lorelei is charged with theft. Dorothy persuades Lorelei to return the tiara, but it's missing from her jewelry box. Sir Francis tries to weasel out of his part in the tiara affair when Malone catches him at the airport. Dorothy stalls for time in court by pretending to be Lorelei, disguised in a blonde wig and mimicking her friend's breathy voice and mannerisms, and putting on a musical number show in the middle of the courtroom, which attracts, confuses and flusters the assembled, including the judge. When Malone appears in court and is about to unmask "Lorelei" as Dorothy, she reveals to Malone in covert language that she, Dorothy, loves him but would never forgive him if he were to do anything to hurt her best friend, Lorelei. Malone withdraws his comments. But he does reveal that Piggy has the tiara, which is returned to him by the court. Back at the nightclub, challenged by the elder Esmond, Lorelei impresses him with her acumen on the subject of patriarchal money: "I don't want to marry him for his money; I want to marry him for your money. Don't you know that a man being rich is like a girl being pretty? You wouldn't marry a girl for being pretty, but doesn't it help?" She also explains that, if he had a daughter, he would want the best for her, and that it is only fair for her to want the same. Once Esmond sees how smart she is, he willingly consents to their marriage. The two women have a double wedding, still singing together as they did in their nightclub act.The picture tells of Roy "Mad Dog" Earle , an aging bank robber who intends to pull off one last heist before retiring. Sprung from prison by crime boss Big Mac , Earle agrees to plan the robbery of a resort hotel. His partners include the hotheaded Babe , Red , and Louis Mendoza , as the "inside man." Along for the ride is Marie , a dance-hall girl whom Babe recently met. Marie falls in love with Earle, but he is more interested in Velma , the club-footed daughter of a farmer  whom Earle had earlier befriended. Intending to use his share of the loot to pay for Velma's needed operation, Earle goes through with the robbery, only to be thwarted by the ineptitude of his gang, the treachery of the late Big Mac's successors, and the fickle Velma. With the still faithful Marie by his side, Earle makes a desperate escape into the High Sierras, but noir fate is against him.In late 1940s Yorkshire, England, ambitious young man Joe Lampton , who has just moved from the dreary factory town of Dufton, arrives in Warley, to assume a secure, but poorly-paid, post in the Borough Treasurer's Department. Determined to succeed, and ignoring the warnings of a colleague, Soames , he is drawn to Susan Brown , daughter of the local industrial magnate, Mr. Brown . He deals with Joe’s social climbing by sending Susan abroad; Joe turns for solace to Alice Aisgill , an unhappily married older woman who falls in love with him. When Susan returns from her holiday, shortly after the lovers  have quarrelled, Joe seduces Susan, and then returns to Alice. Discovering that Susan is pregnant, Mr. Brown, after failing to buy off Joe, coerces him to give up Alice and marry his daughter. Deserted and heartbroken, Alice launches on a drinking bout that culminates in her car-accident death. Distraught, Joe disappears, and after being beaten unconscious by a gang of thugs for making a drunken pass at one of their women, he is rescued by his colleague Soames in time to wed Susan.The Stooges are troubadours sent to cheer up the broken-hearted Princess Elaine . Her father, the King,  has pledged her hand in marriage to the Black Prince , but she loves Cedric, the local blacksmith . The Stooges try to intervene for Cedric by serenading Elaine . They are captured by the king’s guards and condemned to be beheaded. Eventually the King realizes the plot and jails The Black Prince and his fellow plotter. Elaine is allowed to marry Cedric, and they all live happily ever after.Father Michael Logan  is a devout Catholic priest in a church in Quebec City. To take care of the church and the rectory, Father Logan employs a caretaker, Otto Keller , and a housekeeper, Otto's wife Alma , who are German immigrants with very little money, although in their homeland they were more affluent. Otto Keller also works part-time as a gardener for a few householders in Quebec City. Very late one evening Keller asks if Father Logan will hear his confession. In the confessional, Keller confesses that he went to try to steal money from a person he gardens for, a rich lawyer called Villette, and in the process he killed him. Because of the binding nature of the secrecy of the confessional, Father Logan cannot tell the police anything he now knows about this crime. At the time of the murder, two young girls saw someone leaving the house of the murdered man wearing a cassock. While this was just Otto's disguise, suspicion falls upon Father Logan himself . It gradually becomes apparent that Logan, in his early life before he became a priest, had a girlfriend, Ruth , who has always loved him and still does, even though she is now married to someone else. In flashbacks it is shown that Logan stopped writing to Ruth not long after he went off to war. After he came back, Ruth and Logan ended up stranded on an island during a storm, and were forced to shelter for the night in a gazebo. In the morning Villette finds them there, makes offensive comments about Ruth, and is punched by Logan. It turns out that Ruth had married a prominent politician without ever telling Logan, who leaves her and does not see her for years. But Ruth is being blackmailed by Villette. Both her and her husband's lives would be ruined if her previous relationship with Logan were made public, and so she had met with Logan on the night of the murder to ask him for advice about the blackmail situation.  Villette's death comes as a relief to Ruth, and she tells the police about her meeting with Father Logan in order to provide him an alibi, but the meeting did not correspond exactly to the time of the murder and in fact suggests a possible motive. The police then assume that Father Logan killed the blackmailer Villette to protect Ruth and himself, and that there is an ongoing scandalous relationship between the two of them. The situation is made worse by Otto Keller, who lies extensively to the police in order to try to ensure that he himself is safe from suspicion and thus in effect is attempting to ensure that Father Logan is convicted of the murder. Father Logan comes very close to being found guilty and executed for a crime he did not commit, a sort of martyrdom. At the end of his trial, he is just barely found "not guilty", but his reputation as a priest is ruined, and the people of Quebec City gather on the courthouse steps to revile him. Otto's wife cannot bear to see this, and starts to shout out that it was her husband who killed the man, but Otto pulls out a gun and shoots his wife in order to silence her. Running away, Otto is cornered by the police in the grand ballroom of the Château Frontenac. The detective who investigated the story is unable to elicit any comment from Father Logan, and so suspects that Otto is in fact Villette's murderer, and asks him so. Otto then assumes that Father Logan has broke the secret of his confession. Otto declares his guilt and tries to shoot Father Logan, who bravely attempts to approach him and reason with him. Instead, Otto himself is fatally wounded by a police sharpshooter. In extremis Otto calls out to Father Logan to forgive him, and receives absolution. Subtle visual references to Christ, the cross, and the crucifix occur frequently throughout the movie. The soundtrack uses the melody from the Gregorian Chant "Dies Irae" throughout. Alfred Hitchcock's cameo is a signature occurrence in most of his films. In I Confess he can be seen right after the opening credits walking across the top of a steep stairway.Jane Falbury  is a farm owner whose actress sister Abigail  arrives at the family farm with her theater troupe. They need a place to rehearse, and Jane and her housekeeper Esme  reluctantly agree to let them use their barn. The actors and actresses, including the director Joe Ross , repay her hospitality by doing chores around the farm. Although Joe is engaged to Abigail, he begins to fall in love with Jane after Abigail leaves him in an angry fit. Similarly, although Jane is engaged to Orville , she falls in love with Joe.Shree 420 is the tale of a country boy, Raj , from Allahabad, who travels to the big city, Bombay, by walking, to earn a living. He falls in love with the poor but virtuous Vidya , but is soon seduced by the riches of a freewheeling and unethical lifestyle presented to him by an unscrupulous and dishonest businessman, Seth Sonachand Dharmanand  and the sultry temptress Maya ([[Nadira . He eventually becomes a confidence trickster, or "420," who even cheats in card gambling. Vidya tries hard to make Raj a good man but fails. Meanwhile, Sonachand comes up with another scheme to exploit poor people, whereby he promises permanent homes to them at just Rs. 100. The scheme pays off, as people start hoarding money for a home, even at the cost of other important things. Vidya's contempt for Raj increases even more. Raj becomes wealthy, but soon realizes that he paid a very high price for it. When Raj discovers that Sonachand has no plans to fulfill his promises, he decides to make wrongs right. Raj takes all the bond papers of the people's homes and tries to flee Sonachand's home, only to be caught by Sonachand and his cronies. In a scuffle that occurs, Sonachand shoots Raj dead. When people hear the shooting, they come and see Raj dead. Sonachand tells police that Raj was trying to flee after stealing money from his safe, hence Sonachand shot him. Upon this, the 'dead' Raj springs back to life and using pure logic, proves Sonachand's guilt. Sonachand and his partners are arrested, while Vidya happily forgives Raj. The film ends with Raj saying "Yeh 420 nahin, shree 420 hain".Patrick Dennis, orphaned in 1928 when his father unexpectedly dies, is placed in the care of Mame Dennis , his father's sister in Manhattan. Mame is a flamboyant, madcap woman, who hosts frequent parties with eclectic, bohemian guests. Patrick is quickly introduced to his aunt's free-spirited and eccentric lifestyle, including Vera Charles, a lush of a Broadway actress, who spends many of her nights passed out in Mame's guest room. Mame's frequently repeated motto is "Life is a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death!"Quotes imdb.com Since Patrick's father was a wealthy man at the time of his death, Patrick's inheritance comes with a trustee, Mr. Dwight Babcock. Mr. Babcock disapproves of Mame's lifestyle  and wants to interject decorum and discipline in Patrick's life. Mame has Patrick enrolled at a progressive school run by a friend of hers, Acacius Page. Mr. Babcock insists that Patrick be enrolled at Bixby's, a nearby boy's prep school. When he finds out that Mame has not enrolled Patrick at Bixby's, he issues an order: Patrick is to go to St. Boniface boarding school and Mame will only see him at the holidays and during the summer. When Mame's investments are lost in the stock market crash of 1929, she takes a series of jobs—stage acting, telephone operator, sales girl at Macy's -- that all end disastrously. At her sales job at Macy's, she meets a man named Beaureguard Burnside, a rich oil man from the South. He's immediately smitten with her and she falls in love with him as well. Mame and Patrick visit Beau's family estate in Georgia. Sally Cato, who's in love with Beau, tries to sabotage Mame's relationship with Beau. She organizes a fox hunt, suspecting Mame is lying about being a horsewoman  and gives Mame a wild horse. Mame manages to stay on the horse and catches the fox at the end. Beau proposes to her on the spot in front of his family. For their honeymoon, Beau and Mame travel around the world. Mame is sad about leaving Patrick, but they keep in touch through letters and frequent visits during holidays. Through their correspondence, Mame gets a sense that Patrick is growing into a stuffy, conventional man, and she worries for him. When Beau dies while they are climbing the Matterhorn, Mame comes home. Patrick surprises her by installing a dictating machine and a secretary, Agnes Gooch, for her convenience. He and her friends persuade her to write her autobiography. Patrick and Lindsay Woolsey, a friend of Mame's, arrange for a collaborator  for Mame, a Mr. Brian O'Bannion. It becomes clear that O'Bannion is using Mame as a meal ticket; Mame dictates her life to Agnes and both of them are hard at work on her autobiography, while O'Bannion does nothing. One day, as he tries to get fresh with Mame , Patrick walks in on them and disapproves. He announces that he has a girlfriend, Gloria, and wants to bring her over to meet Mame. He cautions Mame to act responsibly while Gloria is there. She calls him beastly and he almost leaves, but at the last minute Mame says she will do whatever he wants to make him and Gloria happy. Patrick thanks her for agreeing to behave  -- and goes to bring Gloria. Meanwhile, O'Bannion insists Mame get dressed for a party to meet movie producers interested in Mame's autobiography. Mame hurriedly dresses the dowdy Agnes up and tells O'Bannion that Agnes is an heiress merely doing secretarial work for "life experience." O'Bannion's mercenary instincts kick in and he gladly escorts Agnes to the party in Mame's place. When Agnes returns the next day, she is disheveled and remembers very little of her night with O'Bannion—only that she thinks she saw a movie with a wedding scene in it. Patrick brings Gloria over, but Mame is horrified to see how upper-crust and snobby she is. Against Patrick's wishes, she goes to visit Gloria's family in a Connecticut gated community, where they express anti-Semitic views. Her parents are just like Gloria, and Mame wants nothing to do with them. Mame arranges a dinner party at her apartment and she invites Gloria, her parents, and Mr. Babcock...and a few of Mame's closest friends, including Vera, Lindsay, and Acacius . On the night of the party, Patrick meets Pegeen, Mame's new secretary—Agnes is now several months pregnant and staying with Mame in "her friendless condition." Everything about the evening is a disaster—the food, the drink, the furniture, and the company. Lindsay surprises the attendees with the galleys from Mame's autobiography; the madcap content leads Gloria to insult the other attendees; Patrick defends them, attacking Gloria's friends instead. In a bizarre twist, the release of the book prompts a telegram from O'Bannion, requesting his efforts be rewarded, efforts that can be proven by his wife—Agnes Gooch O'Bannion!!! The evening ends with Babcock also having a go at Mame, but Mame puts him in his place. Cut to several years later, where Mame and Lindsay and Patrick and Pegeen are now married couples. Their son Michael wants to travel with Mame on her trip to India. The two of them wear down Patrick and Pegeen's objections, and the movie fades away as Mame tells Michael of all the wondrous sights they will see.Shy mountain trapper Yancy  travels through Wyoming with his uncle and aunt. They come across a young woman, Rosalie , whose father tried to sell her.The film tells the fictionalised story of Désirée Clary and her relationship with Napoleon. In 1794, in Marseille, Désirée Clary  makes the acquaintance of a Corsican named Joseph Bonaparte  and invites him and his brother, Gen. Napoleon Bonaparte , to call upon the family the following day. The next day, Julie , Désirée's sister and Joseph are immediately attracted to each other, and Napoleon is taken with Désirée. He admits to her that the poor Bonaparte brothers need the rich dowries of the Clary sisters. Later, Désirée learns that Napoleon has been arrested and taken to Paris. Napoleon eventually returns to Marseille, tells Désirée that he has been cleared of all charges, but has been ordered to track down royalists in Paris. Désirée begs Napoleon to leave the Army and join her brother in business, but he scoffs at the idea and instead proposes marriage. Désirée accepts and lends Napoleon the money to return to Paris. Napoleon tells her that he will always love her and will return soon for their wedding but, as the months pass, Désirée begins to doubt him and goes to the city where she meets General Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte . She learns that Napoleon is engaged to the wealthy, Joséphine de Beauharnais . Désirée contemplates suicide, but she is stopped by Bernadotte who falls in love with her. Later, in 1797, Napoleon, now France’s leading general, has succeeded in conquering Italy, and Désirée lives in Rome with Julie and Joseph. She soon tires of Rome, however, and decides to return to Paris, where she meets Napoleon, now married to Josephine, who announces that he will be leaving for Egypt. Bernadotte is thrilled to see Désirée again and proposes marriage to her. By July 4, 1799, Désirée and Bernadotte have happily settled into married life and have a son, Oskar. On November 9, 1799, Napoleon is proclaimed First Consul of the French Republic and asks Bernadotte to join his council of state. Bernadotte agrees. Several years later, Napoleon is proclaimed emperor, and at his coronation he takes the crown from the hands of Pope Pius VII and crowns himself. Five years later, desperate for an heir, Napoleon divorces Josephine, and Désirée comforts her former rival, before Napoleon’s upcoming marriage to the eighteen-year-old Marie Louise of Austria . Napoleon involves France in more wars, and Bernadotte is approached by representatives of the king of Sweden, who wishes to adopt him and make him the heir to the throne. Désirée, stunned by the news that she will one day be a queen, nevertheless supports her husband, and eventually Napoleon allows both of them to leave Paris. In Stockholm, Désirée does not fit in with the royal family and asks to go home. Eight months later, she attends a ball in Paris at which Napoleon shows off his new son. Napoleon makes veiled threats about Bernadotte’s alliance with Russia and announces to the crowd that she will be held hostage to ensure Sweden’s support while his army marches through Russia to Moscow. Napoleon’s army is defeated and he visits Désirée and asks her to write a letter to Bernadotte, requesting his help. Désirée realizes that Napoleon still loves her and came more for her than to seek her husband’s help. Soon after, Bernadotte leads one of the armies that overwhelms Napoleon, and the triumphant general reunites with Désirée before returning to Sweden. Napoleon’s exile to Elba is short-lived, however, and after the battle of Waterloo, Napoleon retreats with his personal army to the Château de Malmaison. Representatives of the allied armies ask Désirée to speak with Napoleon, hoping that she can persuade him to surrender. Napoleon agrees to speak with Désirée alone, and muses on what his destiny would have been if he had married her. Napoleon proclaims that he has given his life to protect France, but Désirée gently tells him that he must do as France asks and go into exile on St. Helena. Commenting on how strange it is that the two most outstanding men of their time had fallen in love with her, Napoleon gives Désirée his sword in surrender, and assures her that her dowry was not the only reason he proposed to her many years ago in Marseille.In Italy in 1939, a European man calling himself Mr. Imperium uses a ruse to meet an attractive American woman, Frederica Brown. He eventually is revealed to be Prince Alexis, an heir to the throne and a widower with a six-year-old son. He nicknames her "Fredda," so she calls him "Al." When his father becomes gravely ill, he must rush to be with him, but asks prime minister Bernand to deliver to Fredda a note of explanation. Bernand instead tells her the prince is gone for good, that this is his usual method of seducing and abandoning women. Twelve years go by. One day in Paris, a cinema's marquee makes it clear that "Fredda Barlo" is now a movie star. Fredda's former love travels to California, where film producer Paul Hunter is now in love with her and proposing marriage. Fredda decides to drive to Palm Springs to think about his proposal, as well as to decide which actor should co-star in her next film, about a girl who falls in love with a king. "Mr. Imperium" takes a room next to hers, and soon they meet and embrace. He explains the crisis that took place at home during the war and prevented him from looking for her. Now he wants a new life, and Fredda believes he could even portray a king in her film. Bernand turns up, however, to say that his son is preparing to ascend to the throne. Mr. Imperium realizes he is needed there, so he must say goodbye to the woman he loves once more.Jane Richards  is a new teacher, beginning her career at a rural African-American elementary school in Alabama. One of the students in her fourth-grade class is C.T. Young , who, although bright and generally not a troublemaker, is nonetheless markedly disinterested in school and has become accustomed to taking two years to advance through each grade level. Miss Richards becomes determined to get through to C.T. and have her class be the first that does not take him two years to complete, though the school's other teachers have given up on him as "a backward child". The school's principal  also harbors his doubts about C.T., but he admires Miss Richards' enthusiasm and endorses her efforts. Miss Richards' efforts with C.T. begin to pay dividends and his grades improve somewhat, but all of her progress with him seems to be undone when Tanya , another student in the class and C.T.'s closest friend, dies after being stricken with a viral pneumonia. Devastated at the loss, C.T. runs away from school for a time, and even upon his return, immediately starts a schoolyard fight. Insistence that he apologize for his actions causes him only to completely withdraw and isolate himself from his teacher and classmates. Frustrated and saddened, Miss Richards' must return to giving C.T. the failing marks that had been his previous pattern. One day, however, she overhears C.T. helping another student with arithmetic, revealing to her that despite his stubborn refusal to participate in class since returning to school, he has actually been continuing to learn. Seeing this demonstration of knowledge, she is heartened and quietly changes his most recent failing grade to an 'A'. C.T.'s reintegration into the class is completed when he calmly handles a situation in which a swarm of bees invades the classroom, following the queen bee which had flown in. As the other students, and even Miss Richards, panic and swat at the bees, C.T. calmly collects the queen and carries it outside with the swarm following him. The school year ends with the Miss Richards' class observing a caterpillar emerge from its cocoon transformed into a butterfly. Miss Richards notes that it is reborn, "just as you and I will be born again someday, and everyone we've ever known or loved", and that witnessing the butterfly's first flight represents "a wonderful promise of things to come." As he leaves to begin his summer vacation, C.T. offers Miss Richards a final validation of the time she had invested in him by stopping to tell her that he loves her.Paul van Riebeck travels to Ireland from his native South Africa in 1847 to buy horses for his commandos back home, who need them to fight Zulu tribal warriors. He meets lovely Katie O'Neill, daughter of the man selling the horses. She falls in love, but Paul feels he must return home alone. Squire O'Neill dies and a potato famine cripples the Irish people financially. Katie decides to marry Shawn Kildare and persuades him to move to South Africa, a place Paul has told her much about. They have a son before arriving in Cape Town, where an 800-mile trek to Hoffen Valley awaits them. Commando leader Kurt Hout guides the wagon train and becomes fixated on Katie after the Zulu kill her husband. Paul and his other men save the settlers, and he ends up in a brutal fight against Kurt with whips. Kurt stays behind to help Katie build and run a farm because Paul is called away to lead his men. Kurt tries to force himself on her during a storm. A tree falls, resulting in the amputation of one of his legs. The impoverished Katie is brought a valuable diamond by a native, so she and her son return to Cape Town to buy Paul's ancestral home. She loses both her fortune and her husband, who is not pleased by the turn of events. Kurt, meantime, has become leader of a band of outlaws, and his one remaining desire is to kill Paul.Steve Fisk is the mayor of a town called Puget City. At a convention in San Francisco, he mistakes Clarissa Standish, the mayor of Wenonah, Maine, for a "balloon dancer" he was expecting. A former longshoreman, Steve feels that Clarissa might be too refined a woman for him, but he's definitely attracted. He needs to be careful, however, because a crooked city councilman would love to have any hint of scandal to use against Steve politically back home. Steve proceeds to inadvertently get Clarissa arrested twice, first after a brawl in a Chinatown restaurant, then on their way to a costume party. A photographer clicks a picture of Clarissa making it appear she's at the police station for public drunkenness. She doesn't think it funny, but her uncle, Judge Standish, is privately delighted that the prim Clarissa seems to finally be loosening up. The balloon dancer, Sheila, shows up, causing Clarissa to conclude incorrectly that Steve's going to see her. And she's irate when Steve disappears, unaware that he had to hurry home for a hastily called council vote. The truth is, Steve wants to marry Clarissa, and can't wait to present her with the key to his city.Doc Delaney is a recovering alcoholic who, in his younger days, was a promising medical student who dropped out of school to take a job to support a pregnant Lola, whose premarital intercourse with Doc caused her to be thrown out of her family's house by her father. Doc, thinking he was doing the right thing, married Lola. The child later died, and in the process rendered Lola unable to have any further children, leaving the couple childless. As a result, Doc turned to drinking excessively, causing him to have bouts of anger and murderous rage. He later went into therapy and was able to quit drinking, though he still keeps a bottle in the house to remind him of his past life. Marie is a young college student who rents a spare room from the Delaneys. One day she brings home a young man, Turk, who is a star on the track team. He's wearing his track outfit which shows off his muscles, as she intends to use him as a figure model for a poster she's doing for a major athletic competition being held in the town. Mrs. Delaney encourages the couple in their "modeling session", though Doc, who walks in to find Turk underdressed, thinks it borders on pornography. Later, after Marie and Turk leave, it is revealed that Marie is promised to be married to another man, Bruce, who is away but due to return soon. As Marie's infatuation with Turk grows, Doc becomes more agitated. Lola reminds him that Marie is so much like Lola in her younger days, when she was young and pretty and Doc was dashing and handsome, before Lola became "old, fat, and sloppy". Doc calms down but still voices his disagreement over Marie seeing another boy while Bruce is away. One night, Turk and Marie return from a school dance. Marie forgot her key, so Turk enters through a window, unlocks the front door, and lets Marie in. They sneak into Marie's room. Meanwhile, this has been witnessed by Doc, who believes that they are up to no good, and he begins to remember what he was like with Lola. He goes back to the kitchen and reaches for his bottle hidden in the cupboard. Back in Marie's room, she changes her mind about Turk and asks him to leave. He accuses her of being a big tease and is about to force his way onto her when he changes his mind and leaves, unseen by Doc, through a window. The next morning Doc, drunk and angry at what he perceives to be Marie's infidelity, is in a murderous rage and attacks Lola with a knife. She manages to call two of Doc's support group friends to come take him to the hospital just as Doc follows her into the parlor. Doc stumbles and drops the knife, but passes out while trying to choke Lola. The neighbor, Mrs. Coffman, hears the commotion and comes running over, just as the two men come to take Doc away. After Doc is carried off, a shaken Lola calls her mother to see if she can stay there for a few days, but is told that her father still won't welcome her into the family house. Her mother offers to come to Lola's, but Lola declines. Bruce returns and carries Marie away, where they get married. Her drawing was featured in the athletic poster and Turk becomes the star of the competition. Doc returns from the hospital and is welcomed by Lola. Doc realizes that he loves Lola after all, and begs her never to leave him. Lola promises to stay with him forever.The story begins with Aylward  being rejected as a potential missionary to China because of her lack of education. Dr. Robinson , the senior missionary, feels sorry for her and secures her a position in the home of a veteran explorer with contacts in China. Over the next few months, Aylward saves her money to purchase a ticket on the Trans-Siberian railway, choosing the more dangerous overland route to the East because it is less expensive. Once in China, she settles in the town of Yang Cheng, where she secures a post as assistant to a veteran missionary, Jeannie Lawson , who has set up an inn for traveling merchants, where they can get a hot meal and hear stories from the Bible. The film follows Aylward's acculturation, culminating in her taking over the inn when Lawson dies in an accident. The local mandarin  appoints Aylward, a stubborn but endearing woman, as his Foot Inspector to ensure that the ancient practice of foot binding is eradicated in the region he governs. She succeeds in this, and manages to put down a prison revolt as well, winning her the esteem of the local population as well as of the mandarin. Meanwhile, however, China is being invaded by Japan, and Aylward is encouraged by Lin to leave. She refuses, and as the town of Yang Cheng comes under attack, she finds that she has fifty orphans in her care. As the population prepares to evacuate the town, the mandarin announces that he is converting to Christianity to honour Aylward and her work  She is now left alone with the children, aided by Li , the former leader of the prison revolt that she helped to resolve . Lin tells her that the only hope for safety is to take the children to the next province, where trucks will drive them to safety, but they must get there within three weeks, or else the trucks will leave without them. Just as they are preparing to leave, another fifty orphans appear from a neighbouring town, so Aylward and Li have no choice but to lead one hundred children on a trek across the countryside. Although it should only have taken them a week, the roads are infested with Japanese patrols, and the group has no choice but to cut across the mountains. After a long, difficult journey, they all arrive safely  on the day the trucks are to leave. Aylward is greeted by Dr. Robinson, whom she reminds how he rejected her as a missionary years before. The film culminates with the column of children, led by Aylward, marching into the town, singing the song "This Old Man" to keep up their spirits.Sissi is slowly adapting to life as empress of Austria but finds it hard to live with her mother-in-law. The Archduchess Sophie adheres to the old rules and constantly interferes with how the emperor rules the empire and their family life. A scandal breaks out when Sissi leaves the Emperor and returns to Bavaria after her first-born daughter was taken away by the Archduchess to educate her. The Emperor follows her and convinces her to retun to Vienna. Sissi's influence grows, and she supports Prince Gyula Andrássy and the cause of the Hungarians for equal standing in the Empire. The movie concludes with her being crowned Queen of the Hungarians.The film tells the tale of Lakshmi Amma, a loving mother, and her son Venu. Venu falls in love with Radha, a rich lady, and later marries her. After the marriage, Venu and Radha shifts to Madras. He manages to send some money to his mother in the beginning. But as days went, Radha intervenes and Venu is not able to send any more money to his poor mother. Meanwhile, a private moneylender from whom Lakshmi Amma had borrowed some money for Venu's marriage, kicks her out of the house. Venu brings Lakshmi Amma to his Madras residence but Radha is not ready to allow her to stay there. This creates problems and Lakshmi Amma had to leave that house. She is thrown to the streets. A lot of dramatic happenings form the rest of the story.In the village square, a Herald proclaims: "The Prince Is Giving a Ball" to celebrate the Prince's 21st birthday. The ladies of the kingdom are thrilled at the prospect of meeting him. Cinderella, whose beloved father has died, takes care of the home of her ill-tempered and selfish stepmother and stepsisters. She carries all of their shopping parcels for them, and when they return home, all three order Cinderella about. Left alone in her corner near the fire, she dreams of living an exotic life as a princess or anything other than a servant . Meanwhile, the King and Queen get ready for the big celebration  and the servants discuss the planning for the feast . They hope that their son will find a suitable bride, but the Prince is a bit apprehensive about meeting all the eager women of the kingdom. The Queen is touched by overhearing the King's discussion with his son and tells him she loves him . As Cinderella's stepsisters get ready for the Ball, hoping that they will catch the Prince's eye, they laugh at Cinderella's dreams. Finally they leave, and Cinderella imagines having gone with them ("In My Own Little Corner" . Cinderella's Fairy Godmother appears and, persuaded by the fervor of Cinderella's wish to go to the Ball, she transforms Cinderella into a beautifully gowned young lady and her little mouse friends and a pumpkin into a glittering carriage with impressive footmen  and she leaves for the Ball.  Cinderella arrives at the palace at 11:30; before she enters, her Godmother warns her not to stay past midnight. The Prince has been bored by the attention of all the young ladies with whom he has had to dance, including the stepsisters. Cinderella's grand entrance immediately attracts everyone's attention and intrigues the Prince. They dance together and instantly fall in love . Seeing the Prince with a petite beauty , the stepsisters ask why he wouldn't prefer a substantial "usual" girl like them . The Prince and Cinderella dance and find themselves with a private moment, and he declares his love for her . As they share a kiss, the clock begins to strike midnight, and Cinderella flees before the magic wears off; but in her haste, she drops a glass slipper.  The next morning, Cinderella's stepmother and stepsisters reminisce about the Ball and find that Cinderella is very intuitive about what it must have been like going to the Ball  and dancing with the Prince . Meanwhile, the Prince is searching for the beauty with whom he danced, and who fled so quickly from the Ball. His Herald tries the slipper on all the ladies . At Cinderella's house, the slipper will not fit any of the ladies. Cinderella's stepmother tries to steer the Herald away from the servant girl, Cinderella, but she is not home; she is hiding in the Palace garden. The Herald returns to the palace garden and regretfully informs the Prince that he has not found the missing girl. The Herald then sees Cinderella hiding and places her under arrest. Prodded by the fairy godmother, he tries the slipper on Cinderella. It fits, and the Prince is called back to the garden, where he recognizes his beloved ("Do I Love You Because You're Beautiful?" . Cinderella and the Prince marry, and all ends happily.Fresh out of pharmacy school, young Eddy Duchin travels to New York in the 1920s to take a job playing piano for bandleader Leo Reisman's orchestra. But upon arrival, Eddy learns there is no such job. A wealthy socialite, Marjorie Oelrichs, overhears his playing and takes a personal interest in Eddy. When he is invited to the home of her wealthy aunt and uncle, the Wadsworths, for a party, Eddy is disappointed to discover that he has been asked there merely to entertain. Having fallen in love, Marjorie goes so far as to propose marriage to Eddy rather than the other way around. She has secret fears that she expresses on their wedding night, and tragedy strikes when Marjorie giving birth to their child. An anguished Eddie abandons his baby boy, Peter, leaving him in the Wadsworths' care, and goes away from New York for many years. He serves on a warship in the war. Finally persuaded to visit his son, he meets Peter's governess, a British woman named Chiquita, who grows on him after an uneasy start. Peter is learning to play the piano. Eddy has an engagement at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, but his hand freezes while at the keyboard. He eventually is diagnosed with leukemia and has no more than a year to live. After he marries Chiquita, he can't bring himself to tell Peter about his illness, so he simply says that soon he'll be "going away." Peter ultimately learns the truth.Although based on the New Testament story, the film does not follow the biblical text. In Galilee, during the rule of Rome's Tiberius Caesar, King Herod  and Queen Herodias  sit on the throne and are condemned by a prophet known as John the Baptist . Herodias resents John's denunciation of her marriage to the king, her former husband's brother, and the Baptist's claim that she is an adulteress. Salome falls in love with a heroic Roman soldier  who converts to Christianity. In a direct reversal of the Biblical text, she dances for Herod to save John the Baptist from being beheaded, but is unsuccessful. Horrified, she renounces her mother Herodias, who planned and ordered the execution, and also becomes a Christian convert. The last scene shows Hayworth and Granger listening to Christ  delivering the Sermon on the Mount.  Dance of the seven veilsElisabeth is very protective of her teenage brother Paul, who has been injured in a snowball fight at school and has to rest in bed most of the time. The siblings are inseparable, living in the same room, fighting, playing secret games, and rarely leaving the house. Paul’s friend, Gerard, often drops by to stay with them. One day Elisabeth brings home Agathe to live with them. She bears a strong resemblance to Dargelos, a schoolboy whom Paul had a crush on and the same boy who injured him. Paul and Agathe become attracted to each other, causing Elizabeth to be very jealous.In this period film, Lady Mary's  father is accused of treason and, though innocent, is executed. Lady Mary travels to London to confront his accuser, the Duke of Brampton . While there, she meets Michael Dermott , a highwayman, who is also an enemy of the Duke. Dermott is in possession of the Duke's notebook, detailing all the highest ranking and richest people in kingdom. Adventure abounds as the Duke tries to retrieve his property before it can be used against himCanadian ex-serviceman Bob Regan  returns to Oldchester, the English town where he was stationed during the war, hoping to find Pat Lane , the girl he fell in love with. He meets up with Mike Collins ([[George Merritt , an old acquaintance who now manages Oldchester United, the local football club. He also renews his friendship with Collins' daughter Jackie . Mike tells Bob of an odd proviso surrounding the allocation of £25,000 from the estate of a recently deceased businessman and supporter of the football club &ndash; if Oldchester United win promotion to the next division of the Football League that season the money is theirs, if not it goes to the man's nephew. He remembers Bob as a skilful footballer, and asks him to sign up for the team to boost the promotion quest. Bob agrees. The nephew Nick Hammond  is determined that the money will be his, and is worried that Bob's football prowess may well propel the team to on-pitch success. He is acquainted with Pat, now living in London, and persuades her to join him in a scheme to scupper Oldchester's chances. Knowing of Bob's fondness for Pat, and that Pat cares nothing for Bob, he proposes that if Pat can tempt Bob away from Oldchester and the football team, and the team fails in its promotion bid, he will give her a share of the inheritance. The mercenary Pat jumps at the prospect, begins to work her charms on Bob and soon lures him to London to be with her. He is talent-spotted by scouts, and signed up by Arsenal F.C. In due course Bob becomes aware of Pat's true colours, seeks his release from Arsenal and returns to Oldchester, where reformed jail-bird Tony Warren  becomes his unofficial bodyguard. The end of the football season approaches with Oldchester needing to win their final home match to gain promotion. The game starts well, with Bob's goal giving the team a half-time lead. However Nick, in a last attempt to derail Oldchester's chances, succeeds in kidnapping Bob at the half-time interval. Following a car chase involving Tony and Jackie, the tables are turned and Bob is freed. He gets back to the football ground during the closing stages of the match, to find Oldchester trailing by one goal. Returning to the pitch, he scores two late goals to seal Oldchester's victory, promotion and financial windfall. As a bonus, he realises his attraction to Jackie and the couple embrace.Turkey, 1944: German ambassador Franz von Papen and his British counterpart Sir Frederic Taylor attend a reception and encounter Countess Anna Staviska, who is a Frenchwoman and the widow of a Polish count. Now destitute, the countess volunteers to become a spy for a fee, but she is turned down. A man approaches a German embassy atttache, Moyzisch, offering to provide Von Papen with top-secret British documents for a price: 20,000 pounds. What is not yet known by the Germans is that the man, Diello, is the personal valet to Sir Frederic as well as the former valet of the late count. The documents taken from Sir Frederic's safe and photographed prove genuine. Diello is given the code name "Cicero" and asked to continue his subterfuge. Diello gives his money to Anna for safekeeping and pays her a portion of it, provided he be allowed to use her new villa as a meeting place for his transactions. When the valet also tells Anna his dream of living in South America together, she slaps his face. But she agrees to his conditions. Moyzisch is summoned to Berlin by military officers suspicious of Cicero's true intent. A bombing of a Romanian village is carried out, exactly as Cicero's photographed documents had outlined. Colonel Von Richter is sent to Ankara to take over the negotiations with Cicero, while the British send a counter-intelligence man, Colin Travers, to identify the spy. Anna's newfound wealth and previous willingness to become a spy cause her to fall under suspicion from Travers, who also rigs the ambassador's safe with a burglar alarm. Von Richter requests a document detailing an Allied operation called "Overlord." It is the D-Day invasion plan and Cicero wants 40,000 pounds for it. Diello realizes that he could soon be killed by one side or captured by the other. He decides to leave for South America, only to discover that Anna has stolen all of his money and departed to Switzerland instead. A letter arrives from her to Sir Frederic that identifies his valet as the spy. Diello intercepts it while breaking into the safe, but sets off the alarm and must flee. He now knows for certain how Anna feels toward him. Broke and on the run, Diello demands a 100,000-pound payment from the Germans for the D-Day information. He receives it, then manages to avoid getting killed or captured. A forged letter from Anna informs the Germans that the valet is actually a British spy, so they dispose of the D-Day document as unreliable. Diello travels alone to Rio, where he is enjoying a new life of prosperity and freedom. Or at least he is until Brazilian authorities arrive to take him into custody because his money is counterfeit. Anna's money in Switzerland, he finds out, is fake as well.An itinerant rural worker named Macauley &mdash;sometimes described as a “swagman” or “swaggie”&mdash;suddenly finds himself taking responsibility for his child. Having returned from “walkabout”, he finds his wife entwined in the arms of another, and so he takes the daughter, Buster, with him. The child is the “shiralee”, an Irish or Aboriginal word meaning "swag", or metaphorically, a “burden.”http://hdl.handle.net/2328/311 In their time together, father and daughter explore new depths of understanding and bonding. The barren landscapes of the outback provided both a backdrop to the richness of the relationship, as well as explaining the swagman’s love for the country. Jim and Buster stay with the Parkers, whose daughter Liz was an old lover of Jim's and fell pregnant to him. Jim tries to abandon Buster but she refuses to leave. Buster is injured in a car accident, and father and daughter are reunited.Delilah Lee is groomed by her husband Jeff Ames for his new Broadway show. Delilah becomes such a success to a point where she feels that Jeff thinks of her more as an asset than a wife. When the show's backer Gloria Carstairs begins coming on to Jeff, Delilah leaves him, but regrets it later on and tries to win him back. She devises a scheme involving amnesia to lure Jeff back to her.Based on the life of Dame Nellie Melba, the film traces the career of Melba  from the time she left Australia, traveling to Paris to receive vocal training, meets a new suitor, and debuts her talent in Brussels. As her success grows, her former suitor from Australia arrives in Monte Carlo, convinces her to marry him, but then finds himself placed in the position of being "Mr. Melba". When he leaves her to return to Australia, Melba remains in Europe to continue singing.Robert Dean is an old-fashioned psychologist who reluctantly allows his oldest daughter Meg to join a four week tour in São Paulo before returning to college in America. When he finds out she is planning on six more weeks, he immediately books a ticket to Brazil to find out what her true motives for staying are. He is accompanied by his loving wife Mary and youngest daughter, the wise-cracking, joyful Betsy. Upon arriving, Robert is unamused by the notable character change in a daughter. She looks to be very much interested in her older mentor Eduardo Barroso, and has taken up habits which are shocking to Robert, including smoking. Unaware of her daughter's engagement with Barroso's son Carlos, Robert mistakes Eduardo for being Meg's love interest. Meanwhile, Betsy is enjoying the attention she is receiving from the United States Air Force, and falls in love with Sgt. Paul Gattling. Back at the hotel, Carlos is reluctant to meet Meg's parents, thinking they will disapprove of his bohemian lifestyle. By assuming the worst, Carlos makes a horrible impression on Robert. The latter tries to prohibit his daughter from seeing them by booking a flight to Rio de Janeiro and then Lima for the family. Feeling betrayed by her father, Meg calls Carlos to tell him goodbye, and he responds by confronting her with leading her father's life. Nevertheless, he and Eduardo follow her to Lima, where Carlos and Meg are reunited at a bull fight. Soon after, Paul, who has set out to Lima as well, proposes to Betsy, but she rejects him, explaining she is not ready to marry. Later that night, Eduardo and Carlos announce they are returning to São Paulo the following day. Robert eventually reluctantly allows his daughter to accompany her future husband. After bidding her daughter farewell, Robert goes to a bar and gets drunk. He ends up lying unconscious on the street and is mistaken for being a member of a Spanish tour group. Upon awaking, Robert finds out he is on a plane heading for Madrid and is eventually dropped off in Trinidad. There, he phones Meg to give her his sincere blessing for marrying Carlos, but she announces she is not in love with Carlos any longer. Betsy, on the other hand, desires to marry Paul. Upon asking her father for permission, he declares that she is old enough to make her own decisions, after which she is officially engaged to Paul.A meeting of the “Council of Culture” is taking place in New York City. The council is collecting various art forms for inclusion in a time capsule, However, the council members refuse to consider having mention of burlesque entertainment in their time capsule. News of the decisions reaches a trio of burlesque comics , who disrupt the council’s meeting by imitating gangsters. The three funnymen take out a movie projector to offer evidence of the artistic value of burlesque entertainment. The remainder of the film is a plotless revue that features such acts as stripper Rosita Royce dancing with a number of trained birds, the Apache-style dance duo of Marinette and Andre, a male bodybuilder dubbed “Mr. America” who flexes his muscles and plays the harmonica while balancing a blonde woman on his shoulders, a number of routines featuring solo women  in various acts of undressing, and several comedy sketches including Diamond, Kay and HarrisJohns plays Barbara Vining, a teen-age student that has an unrequited crush on her Latin teacher, Stephen Barlow . When Barlow's wife Kay  finds out about this, she confronts Barbara, who is humiliated and runs off. Stephen chases after her to try to calm her down near a local river. Barbara does not return home to her parents for three days, during which time Stephen is accused by the community of causing her death without any evidence, causing him to lose his job and nearly his marriage. Walter Fitzgerald and Megs Jenkins play her parents Henry and Vi, and Pamela Brown plays her spinster Aunt Evelyn, who lives with the family and with her gossip and innuendo, makes the situation worse.Antoine Doinel  is a 12-year old boy growing up in Paris during the early 1950s. Misunderstood at home by his parents and tormented in school by his insensitive teacher , Antoine frequently runs away from both places. The boy finally quits school after being accused of plagiarism by his teacher. He steals a typewriter from his father's  work place to finance his plans to leave home. The father angrily turns Antoine over to the police, who lock the boy up with hardened criminals. Antoine spends the night in jail, sharing a cell with prostitutes and thieves. During an interview with the judge, Antoine’s mother confesses that Antoine’s father is not his biological father. Antoine is placed in an observation center for troubled youths near the shore . A psychiatrist at the center probes Antoine's unhappiness, which he reveals in a fragmented series of monologues. One day, while playing football with the other boys, Antoine escapes under a fence and runs away to the ocean, a place he has wanted to visit his entire life. He reaches the shoreline of the sea and runs into it. The film concludes with a freeze-frame of Antoine, and then the camera zooms in on his face, looking into the camera.In Paris in 1890, as crowds pour into the Moulin Rouge nightclub, young artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec finishes a bottle of cognac and sketches the dancers as they perform. The nightclub's regulars each stop by: singer Jane Avril teases Henri charmingly, dancers La Goulue and Aicha fight, and owner Maurice Joyant offers Henri free drinks for a month in exchange for painting a promotional poster. At closing time, Henri waits for the crowds to disperse before standing to reveal his four-foot, six-inch body. As he walks to his Montmartre apartment, he recalls the events that led to his disfigurement: Henri is a bright, happy child, revered by his father, the Count de Toulouse-Lautrec. When he falls down a flight of stairs, however, his legs fail to heal, a genetic weakness that stems from the fact that his parents are first cousins. His legs stunted and pained, Henri loses himself in his art, while his father soon leaves the countess to ensure they will have no more children. As a young adult, Henri proposes to the woman he loves but, when she tells him no woman will ever love him, he leaves his childhood home in despair to begin a new life as a painter in Paris. Back in the present, street walker Marie Charlet begs Henri to rescue her from police sergeant Patou. Henri wards off the policeman by pretending to be her guardian, after which she insists on following him home. There, she addresses his small stature, and although he is at first angry, he allows her to stay out of his desperate loneliness and is charmed when she claims not to care about his legs. Within days, he is buying her gifts and singing as he paints, until Marie takes his money and stays out all night. Henri waits in agony for her return, but when she finally does he tells her to leave at once. Realizing that he loves her, she vows to stay and love him back. Although she continues to fight petulantly with him, he tells himself that her crassness stems from her poverty and lets her stay. During one fight, however, she announces that he can never attract a real woman and leaves. By morning, she begs him to take her back, but he refuses. He begins drinking and does not stop until his landlady calls his mother, who urges him to save his health by finding Marie. He searches her working-class neighborhood, finally discovering her at a café, where she drunkenly reveals that she stayed with him only to procure money for her boyfriend. When she adds that his touch made her sick, he returns to his apartment and turns on the gas vents. As he sits waiting to die, he is suddenly inspired to finish his Moulin Rouge poster, and, brush in hand, distractedly turns the vents off again. The next day, he brings the poster to the dance hall, and although the style is unusual, Maurice accepts it. Henri works for days at the lithographers, blending his own inks to perfect the vivid colors. When he finishes, the poster, which shows a woman dancing with her legs exposed, becomes an instant sensation and the dance hall opens to high society. The count, however, denounces Henri for the "pornographic" work. Over the next ten years, Henri records Parisian life in countless brilliant paintings. By 1900, he is famous but still terribly lonely. One day, he sees Myriamme Hyam standing on Pont Alexandre III over the Seine River and, thinking she may jump, stops to talk to her. She spurns his advances and throws a key into the water. Days later, Jane, a friend of Myriamme's, arranges a meeting for them. Myriamme is a great admirer of Henri's paintings, and the two begin to spend time together. Eventually, she reveals that the key she threw out belonged to a married man, Marne de la Voisier, who asked her to be his mistress. Although Henri continues to decry the possibility of true love, he nonetheless falls in love with Myriamme. One day, they see La Goulue on the street drunkenly insisting that she was once a star, and Henri realizes that once the Moulin Rouge became respectable it could no longer be home to misfits. Myriamme later informs Henri that Marne has asked her to marry him. Certain that she loves the more handsome man, he bitingly congratulates her for trapping Marne. Even after she asks if he loves her, Henri believes she is only trying to spare his feelings and lies that he does not. By the time he receives a letter stating that she loves him but cannot wait any longer, she has already left the city and he cannot find her. Weeks later, he is still drinking steadily and reading her note over and over. He is helped home one night by Patou, now an inspector, but once home, Henri, in a state of delirium tremens, hallucinates that he sees cockroaches and, in trying to drive them away, accidentally falls down a flight of stairs. Near death, he is brought to his family home. After the priest reads the last rites, the count tearfully informs Henri that he is to be the first living artist to be shown in the Louvre and begs for forgiveness. Henri turns his head and watches as phantasmal characters from his Moulin Rouge paintings, including Jane Avril, dance into the room to bid him goodbye.Will Mossop  is a gifted but unappreciated bootmaker employed by the tyrannical Henry Horatio Hobson  in his moderately upscale shop in 1880s Salford. Hard-drinking widower Hobson has three daughters. Maggie  and her younger sisters Alice  and Vicky  have worked in their father's establishment without wages and are eager to be married and free of the shop. Alice has been seeing Albert Prosser , a young up-and-coming solicitor, while Vicky prefers Freddy Beenstock , the son of a respectable corn merchant. Hobson does not object to losing Alice and Vicky, but Maggie is far too useful to part with. To his friends, he mocks Maggie as a spinster "a bit on the ripe side" at 30 years of age. Her pride injured, Maggie bullies the browbeaten, unambitious Willie into an engagement. When Hobson objects to her choice of his own lowly employee as husband and refuses to start paying her, Maggie announces that she and Willie will set up in a shop of their own. For capital, they turn to a satisfied customer for a loan. With money in hand, they are married, and, between Maggie's business sense and Willie's shoemaking genius, the enterprise is successful. Within a year, they have not only paid off their business loan, but have also taken away nearly all of Hobson's clientele. Under Maggie's tutelage, the formerly illiterate Willie has become an educated, self-confident man of business, and he and Maggie have fallen in love. When Hobson's drinking finally catches up with him, Dr. MacFarlane  sends for Maggie to care for the ailing, bedridden man. At her urging, Mossop offers to go into partnership with Hobson, on condition that Hobson take no further part in the business. After a tussle over the name to be used, Hobson reluctantly agrees.During World War II, a three year-old boy is found wandering alone in Germany. No family can be traced, and it is presumed that his parents and siblings have been casualties of war. The child is placed in an orphanage, from where he is subsequently adopted by a childless couple, who he grows to love and accept as his parents. When the boy is 10 years old, his natural mother is found alive in Yugoslavia where she has survived the war as a refugee. She returns to Germany to claim her child, having lost her husband and two other children in the war. The film focuses on the moral dilemma of the situation: should the child remain with the adoptive parents who have given him a loving and happy home, or be returned to his natural mother who has lost everything else, and to what extent should the child's own wishes be taken into account? The case is finally referred to a three-man court, who will decide the child's future.On an ocean liner, a passenger recognizes famed ballet creator Charles Coudray , and asks him politely why one of his works has never been performed since its debut. When Coudray remains silent, the fan leaves him alone with his thoughts, leading to a flashback. Ballerina Paula Woodward  auditions for Coudray. Coudray is impressed, but then Paula collapses and has to be carried off stage. A doctor informs her aunt Lydia  that she has a heart condition that will force her to give up dancing. Some time later, Paula attends a performance of Coudray's latest ballet. After everyone else has left, she goes on stage and starts dancing. However, she is not alone. Coudray has been watching. He is dissatisfied with certain aspects of his work; from what he has seen of Paula's impromptu performance, he believes she can help him fix the defects. At first, Paula declines his invitation to dance for him at his studio home, but eventually agrees. Paula lives up to Coudray's high expectations, but exhausts herself in the process. Coudray tenderly kisses her before she goes to change. She slips away and returns home to Lydia with the news of what she has done. But on her way upstairs, she dies, her last words a lament that she had promised Coudray that she would be with him always.  The story then shifts to a second passenger, referred to only as Mademoiselle . A chance remark by a passerby about a governess triggers her flashback. She is the governess and French tutor to Thomas Clayton Campbell Jr., a bored eleven-year-old American boy  left in her charge at a hotel by his absent parents. One day, another boy dares him to visit Mrs. Hazel Pennicott , who lives next door and is reputed to be a witch. When he wishes he were a man, she tells him to wrap a red ribbon around his finger and recite her name at 8 pm, but she warns him that the spell will only last until midnight. The incantation works, and he is transformed into a young man . In his new form, he goes to find Mademoiselle, and is surprised to find that he no longer despises Mademoiselle, nor the romantic poetry that she kept reciting to him. They embark on a whirlwind romance, but he warns her that he has only a few hours before he has to go away. He does however promise that he will see her off at the train station the next day. He flees as the clock strikes midnight. He keeps his word, but as the young boy. Mademoiselle quits her job to remain in Rome. While waiting for her lover to show up, she bumps into Mrs. Pennicott and spills the contents of the old woman's purse. Mademoiselle gathers up the various items, but after Mrs. Pennicott thanks her and leaves, she picks up an overlooked red ribbon. The film shifts back to the ship. While Mademoiselle is knitting in a deck chair, the red ribbon blows away. When she goes to retrieve it, she encounters a handsome young man who informs her that he saw her before, from the train as it departed the station.  The camera moves to Pierre Narval , leaning over the rail and gazing at the ocean. In Paris, Narval saves a suicidal Nina Burkhardt  after she jumps from a bridge over the Seine River. He goes to visit her in the hospital, and finds her still very depressed. He gives her his address and asks her to come see him. When she does , he tells her that he was once a great trapeze artist. However being the best was not enough for him; he kept trying more and more dangerous tricks, and two years ago, his partner was killed as a result. After that, nobody would work with him. As Nina has demonstrated that she has no fear of dying, he asks her to be his new partner. When she agrees, he starts training her, despite his friends' warning that his obsession will kill her too. Narval learns Nina's own dark secret. She and her husband had been imprisoned by the Nazis in a concentration camp during World War II. She was released. Sensing that he was planning an escape, she had written him a letter begging him to wait, that the Allies would liberate him soon enough. However, she entrusted the letter to a man who betrayed them. Her husband was executed. At last, the act is ready. They audition for an important American, who insists they perform the climax, the "Leap of Death" , without a safety net, just as they would before a live audience. They do the trick, but then Narval makes a decision. They walk away, leaving the circus behind them. Back aboard the ship, Narval is joined by a loving Nina.During the First World War, Lieutenant Richard Saville, a young British naval officer on five days leave, and Miss Lucinda Bentley, a merchant's daughter from Portsmouth, get talking on the train up to London. Halfway along their journey, they miss their rail connection and spend a romantic holiday in the countryside of southern England. When Saville proposes to her, she accepts, but on the day they are due to go back to Portsmouth, she changes her mind, asking Saville to realise that neither he nor she could bear being parted for the long periods he would be at sea. They part, seemingly forever. Saville serves out the First World War and the inter-war years, and by the first years of the Second World War, he is in command of a squadron of three cruisers on convoy duty in the Pacific. He receives a message from a British merchantman just before it is sunk by the German raider Essen, but HMS Stratford, the flagship of Saville's squadron is too low on fuel for pursuit and the convoy cannot be left unguarded. Saville decides to remain with the convoy while his other two ships - HMS Amesbury and HMS Cambridge - chase after the raider. Cambridge then has to stop to pick up survivors from the merchantman, leaving the Amesbury on her own. Amesbury finds and attacks the Essen, scoring a major torpedo hit on the Essen’s bow, but is sunk with the loss of all but two hands, Petty Officer Wheatley and Signalman Andrew 'Canada' Brown. Brown is the son of a mother keen on the navy and thus knows more about naval tactics, strategy and gunnery than most of his rank. The Essen picks up the two survivors. Meanwhile, news of the Amesbury’s fate reaches Saville in the Stratford. Saville decides to risk all and go after the Essen with Cambridge. While the Essen is anchored in a rocky lagoon for 36 hours to carry out repairs, Brown manages to escape to the heights around the lagoon with a rifle . He then proceeds to pick off sailors working on the repairs, leading the Essen’s captain to use his ship's AA guns and then big guns in vain attempts to dislodge Brown. Finally he sends a party of marines out to hunt Brown down, but just as they are about to kill him, they are recalled and the Essen departs. Brown collapses, seriously wounded. As the Essen leaves the lagoon, she is caught and sunk by Saville's force. One of her survivors informs the British of Brown's exploits, which delayed repairs for 18 hours, thus enabling the British to catch up with them. A landing party is sent ashore from Saville's force to find Brown.  The film is unusual for its period in that, for the American version, two different endings were filmed, one in which Brown survives and another in which he is killed. These were both shown in cinemas and audiences were asked to choose their favourite one. Both endings are also shown when the film is broadcast on British television .  The landing party searches the island for Brown, as the camera pans to his apparently dead body. The action then cuts to London and an honours investiture, where Saville receives a knighthood for his actions. Brown was found dead by the landing party and is awarded a Victoria Cross posthumously, presented to his mother. She is revealed to be the former Lucinda Bentley, who had moved to Canada after her tryst with Saville. She and Saville meet before she goes to accept her son's medal.  The action cuts straight from the German survivor to an honours investiture in London, where Brown  meets Saville. Brown tells Saville that his English mother - to whom he owes his joining the navy - is living in Montreal and unable to make it to the ceremony . Saville informs Brown that he is to be his signaller on their next posting, on the north Atlantic convoy routes. They will both probably get a chance to see his mother in Canada. The pair then stand to attention as the national anthem plays.Eve Gill , an aspiring actress studying at RADA, is interrupted in the middle of a rehearsal by her friend, actor Jonathan Cooper . The frantic Jonathan explains that he is the secret lover of flamboyant stage actress/singer, Charlotte Inwood . He claims that Charlotte visited him after killing her husband in an argument. She was wearing a bloodstained dress and Jonathan agreed to go back to her house and obtain another one. He found the body of Mr. Inwood at the residence, took a spare dress from the wardrobe and then tried to simulate a burglary gone wrong, only to be caught in the act by Charlotte's theatre maid and dresser, Nellie Goode . He is now on the run, wanted by the police. Eve has long had a crush on Jonathan, but accepts that he is not interested in her romantically. She takes him to hide in a house near the coast owned by her father, Commodore Gill . Persuaded to help, the Commodore then notices that the blood on Charlotte's dress has been smeared on deliberately, not by accident, and he and Eve suspect that Jonathan has been framed. He angrily rejects this, destroying the dress and thus the best evidence they have on Charlotte. Eve decides to investigate for herself. Posing as a reporter, she bribes Nellie Goode to pretend that she is ill and cannot work for Charlotte for a while. Eve then utilises her acting skills to affect the false identity and accent of a Cockney maid, claiming to be Nellie's cousin, "Doris Tinsdale", and takes the temporary job of replacing "her cousin" in order to infiltrate Charlotte's household. In the course of trying to clear Jonathan, Eve meets Detective Inspector Wilfred Smith ([[Michael Wilding . As Eve, she and Smith get quite friendly and she has to go to great lengths to cover the fact that she is also "Doris" the maid when Smith visits Charlotte to ask further questions. As Eve, she is not able to get much from him on the progress of the investigation. Out to court Eve, Smith visits her and her mother at their home in London. They are joined by the Commodore who drops subtle hints to Eve that Jonathan has left their house by the sea. Meanwhile, in spite of the tragedies that are surrounding her, Charlotte continues to perform at her West End musical show. She is secretly visited by Jonathan who wants her to accompany him abroad and tells her that he still has the dress with the bloodstain. Charlotte makes it clear that she will not give up her career for a hunted fugitive &mdash; in any case she is secretly having an affair with her manager Freddie Williams . Eve again helps Jonathan escape the police and he hides out at the Gill's London residence. He thanks Eve for her support, but she feels torn since she is starting to fall in love with Wilfred Smith. When Nellie Goode uncovers the deception that is going on, Eve manages to buy her off with blackmail money. With time running out, she persuades Smith to accompany her to a garden party where Charlotte is singing on stage in a large tent. During the performance, Commodore Gill gets a little boy to take a doll wearing a dress stained with blood, Gill's own, up to the stage. The sight causes Charlotte to collapse and Williams summons "Doris" for assistance. Seeing Eve attending to Charlotte and the stained doll's dress leads Smith to put two and two together. Smith confronts Eve and the Commodore over their "amateur meddling". They persuade him to set Charlotte up into making a confession. Once the theatre has closed for the evening, Eve comes out of character and confronts Charlotte near a hidden microphone &mdash; Smith and his men listening in to the conversation from the loudspeakers. Charlotte admits her involvement in her husband's death (making her an [[Accessory  but denies committing the murder itself, blaming Jonathan. Eve then sees that Jonathan has been brought to the theatre by the police, Smith having guessed that he was hiding in their house. She falls into hysterics, enabling Jonathan to get away. At this point Smith reveals to the Commodore that Jonathan really did kill Mr. Inwood and that he has actually killed before, though he got off on a plea of self-defence. Hiding below stage, Jonathan confesses to Eve that Charlotte goaded him into killing her husband &mdash; but actually in order to make way for Freddie Williams. The story he told Eve when she agreed to hide him was all lies. He has a temper that makes him lash out when provoked. When he threatens to kill her as well, Eve escapes and in the confusion that follows Jonathan is decapitated by the stage's safety curtain.Blonde B-girl Vivian , working at "The Grass Skirt" in Boston talks a drunk  in the bar into "borrowing" his car. She drives to Cape Cod with the car's owner drunk by her side. When the man realizes he's miles from Boston he objects and demands that he be taken back. Instead, she ditches him and steals the car. Afterward she meets up with a mysterious man who kills her. A day later the drunk reports the car stolen to his insurance but neglects to mention the blonde as not to get in trouble with his wife . Months later, the B-girl's skeleton washes up on a beach. Barnstable cop Peter Morales  teams up with Boston police and uses forensics with the help of Dr. McAdoo, a Harvard doctor , to figure out who the woman is. The cop then tries to figure out how she died and, later, who killed her. Vivian's nosy landlady  attempts to blackmail a boyfriend Vivian used to call from her boarding house, going so far as to visit the wealthy married man and steal his gun. Morales tracks down the stolen car from police records and questions Henry Shanway, the drunk man Vivian was with the night she disappeared. Eventually Morales finds Shanway's car and he's identified in a police lineup. The innocent man is arrested and charged with the murder. Morales and Dr. McAdoo find the bullet still stuck in the car. Morales then finds out that the landlady has the gun, but not before she tries to blackmail the owner and is knocked over the head, and later dies. Morales chases after but loses the killer. Morales finds a hidden baggage check in the landlady's room, which sends Morales racing to catch the killer before the murder weapon can be disposed of.The Egyptian Pharaoh has ordered the death of all firstborn Hebrew males, but a Hebrew woman  sets her infant son adrift on the Nile in order to save him. The infant is rescued from the Nile by an Egyptian princess  who decides to adopt the boy even though her servant  recognizes that the child is Hebrew and protests. As a young man, Moses becomes a successful general, claiming victory in a war with the Nubians of Ethiopia and then entering Egypt into an alliance with them. Moses loves Nefretiri, who is the "throne princess" and must marry the next Pharaoh. An incident occurs when an elderly woman, who is greasing the ground for the pillar of stone to move easier, is almost crushed to death when her scarf gets caught under the slap of stone, prompting Moses to scold Baka. Moses frees the elderly woman from her dangerous chore. Little did Moses know that the elderly woman was his natural mother Yoshebel. While working on the building of a treasure city for Seti's Jubilee, Moses meets the stonecutter Joshua, who tells him of the Hebrew God. Moses institutes numerous reforms concerning the treatment of the slaves on the project, and eventually Rameses charges Moses with planning an insurrection, pointing out that the slaves are calling Moses the "Deliverer" of prophecy. Moses defends himself against the charges, arguing that he is simply making his workers more productive by making them stronger and happier and proves his point with the impressive progress he is making. During this time, Rameses has been charged by his father with finding out whether there really is a Hebrew fitting the description of the Deliverer.  Nefretiri learns from the servant Memnet that Moses is the son of Hebrew slaves. Nefretiri kills Memnet and reveals the story to Moses, who goes to Bithiah to learn the truth. Bithiah evades his questions, but Moses follows her to the home of Yoshebel and thus learns the truth. Moses spends time working amongst the slaves to learn more of their lives. During this time the master builder Baka steals Liliah, who is engaged to the stonecutter Joshua. Joshua rescues Liliah but is captured himself; Moses frees Joshua but strangles Baka. Moses confesses to Joshua that he too is Hebrew; the confession is witnessed by the ambitious Hebrew overseer Dathan. Dathan uses the information to bargain with Rameses for Baka's house, a post as Governor of Goshen, and the ownership of the slave Liliah. Based on Dathan's information, Moses is arrested and brought before Seti. Moses tells Seti that he is not the Deliverer, but would free the slaves if he could. Bithiah tells her brother Seti the truth about Moses, and Seti orders his name stricken from all records and monuments. Moses is banished to the desert, but not before, he receives the word that Yoshebel had died before she delivered the piece of a Levite cloth, and Rameses is declared the next Pharaoh.  Moses makes his way across the desert, nearly dying of hunger and thirst before he comes to a well in the land of Midian. At the well, he defends seven sisters from Amalekites who try to push them away from the water. Moses finds a home in Midian with the girls' father Jethro, a Bedouin sheik, who reveals that he is a follower of "He who has no name," whom Moses recognizes as the God of Abraham. Moses impresses Jethro and the other sheiks with his wise and just trading, and marries Jethro's eldest daughter . While herding sheep in the desert Moses finds Joshua, who has escaped from the copper mines that he was sent to after the death of Baka. Moses sees the Burning Bush on the summit of Mount Sinai and hears the voice of God . God charges Moses to return to Egypt and free His chosen people. In Egypt, Seti dies and Rameses succeeds him as Pharaoh. At Pharaoh's court, Moses comes before Rameses to win the slaves' freedom, turning his staff into a snake to show Rameses the power of God. Rameses decrees that the Hebrews be given no straw to make their bricks, but to make the same tally as before on pain of death. As the Hebrews prepare to stone Moses in anger, Nefretiri's retinue rescues him; however when she attempts to resume their relationship he spurns her, reminding her that not only is he on a mission he is also married. As Moses continues to challenge Pharaoh's hold over his people, Egypt is beset by divine plagues. Moses warns him that the next plague to fall upon Egypt will be summoned by Pharaoh himself. Enraged at the plagues and Moses' continuous demands, as well as his generals and advisers telling him to give in, Rameses orders all first-born Hebrews to die. Nefretiri warns Sephora to escape with her son  on a passing caravan to Midian, and Moses tells the Queen that it is her own son who will die. In an eerily quiet scene, the Angel of Death creeps into Egyptian streets in a glowing green cloud, killing all the firstborn of Egypt, including the adult son of Pharaoh's top general, and Pharaoh's own child. The Hebrews who have marked their doorposts and lintels with lamb's blood are eating a hasty meal and preparing to depart. Broken and despondent, Pharaoh orders Moses to take his people, and cattle, and go. The Hebrews begin their exodus from Egypt. Nefretiri goads Pharaoh into a rage so that he arms himself and pursues the former slaves to the shore of the Red Sea. Held back by a pillar of fire, the Egyptian forces watch as Moses parts the waters. As the Hebrews race over the seabed, the pillar of fire dies down and the army rides in hot pursuit. The Hebrews make it to the far shore as the waters close on the Egyptian army, drowning every man and horse. Rameses looks on in despair. All he can do is return to Nefretiri, confessing to her, "His god is God." The former slaves camp at the foot of Sinai and wait as Moses again ascends the mountain. During his absence, the Hebrews lose faith and, urged on by the evil Dathan, build a golden calf as an idol to bear before them back to Egypt, hoping to win Rameses' forgiveness. They force Aaron to help fashion the gold plating. The people indulge their most wanton desires in an orgy of sinfulness.  High atop the mountain, Moses witnesses God's creation of the stone tablets containing the Ten Commandments. When he finally climbs down, Moses beholds his people's iniquity and hurls the tablets at the idol in a rage. The idol explodes, and Dathan and his followers are killed. After God forces them to endure forty years' exile in the desert wandering lost, to kill off the rebellious generation, the Hebrews are about to arrive in the land of Canaan. An elderly Moses, who, however, is not allowed to enter the promised land, because he disobeyed the lord at the waters of strife, not shown in the film, then appoints Joshua to succeed him as leader, says a final good bye to Sephora, and goes forth to his destiny.Melville A. "Ironpants" Goodwin  is a much-decorated U.S. Army major general who has just been appointed chairman of the Joint Atomic International Commission by the President of the United States. This is upsetting to wealthy Dorothy "Dottie" Peale, a media mogul who wanted a close friend of her father's to get the position. Dottie is accustomed to getting her way and decides to do something about it. She gets the Army to send General Goodwin to her estate on Long Island for a lengthy interview and photo session for one of her popular Peale Enterprises publications. Her plot is to ruin Goodwin's reputation as a squeaky-clean, red-blooded American. Dottie hides a tape recorder in her home, and assigns a photographer to catch Goodwin in compromising situations. Having heard rumors that he is secretly a ladies man, she also hopes to get the general to disclose something scandalous. Every attempt to catch Goodwin off guard or make him appear a fool fails. Drastic measures are called for, what Dottie terms as "night maneuvers." She takes the general to a nightclub, tries to get him drunk, coaxing him to sing and dance in a vain attempt to humiliate him. Nothing works. A little tipsy herself, Dottie falls off a diving board of her swimming pool at home. Goodwin rescues her, leading to a night of romance. Dottie's attitude is changed. She plans to marry Goodwin and maybe even help him become President of the United States, which would make her First Lady. To her surprise, the general has no plans to continue this romance. He tells her about a love affair with a woman named Yvette to whom he revealed top-secret information during the Korean War. When he found out Yvette was an enemy spy, he had to have her shot. A rejected Dottie goes back to her original plan to ruin him. Her magazine's story, "Blabbermouth Goodwin," results in a Senate inquiry into his behavior. Unfortunately for the general, his activity in the Yvette spy case is still top secret, and he is forbidden to discuss it. Questioned by hostile Senator Burdick  about another girl in the story, Goodwin reveals she was not a grown woman but a seven-year-old orphan. He has explanations for everything else and his conduct has been exemplary at all times. Dottie feels ashamed of her role in this and confirms on the stand his assertion that the article was filled with exaggerations and lies. Yet she cannot say the same about the matter of Yvette. Goodwin is unable to get permission to speak about her through the usual channels; in desperation, he sends Colonel Homer Gooch  to see the President. Finally, the spy case is declassified. He testifies that the Army knew that Yvette was a spy. When he was informed, he decided to break off the affair, but was ordered to feed her false information in advance of an important counterattack. After he is cleared, he drags a not-unwilling Dottie into a waiting car.John Emmett is on a fishing trip when his car breaks down. He is offered a ride by a stranger, Ann Nicholson, who is driving to Santa Fe and asks him to take turns behind the wheel. A woman identifying herself as a nurse takes John aside in a diner and says she has been following because Ann is an escaped mental patient of a Dr. Frederick Simmons. And although he isn't sure what to believe, John begins to doubt Ann when two policemen take them into custody, claiming to be investigating a murder in Los Angeles. John and Ann manage to slip away. He demands the truth, whereupon Ann says she is an ex-German citizen who stumbled upon a government plot and is in possession of valuable microfilm. The chase ends in a shootout between Simmons, who is actually a Soviet spy, and his accomplices versus FBI agents, who verify Ann's story. She and John end up married and fishing on their honeymoon.The king of Mullai nadu is dominated by his Raja guru  . The guru wants his son Parthiban  to be appointed as the General of the army. But the king appoints Veera Mohan  instead. The enraged Parthiban becomes a bandit and starts raiding the country side. He wants to marry the princess Jeevarekha  who is in love with Veera Mohan. Parthiban sends a message to Jeevarekha to meet him secretly. The message is delivered by mistake to the minister's daughter Amudhavalli  and she goes to meet Parthiban. Parthiban and Amudhavalli fall in love. Meanwhile, the king sends his general Veeramohan to capture the bandits plaguing the country side. Veeramohan captures Parthiban and produces him in the royal court. The Raja guru is enraged and tries to get his son off by various means. He demands a trial for his son in front of the Goddess. During the trial, Amudhavalli hides behind the Goddess statue and pronounces Parthiban as innocent. She blames Veeramohan for the banditry. The king believing that the Goddess had spoken releases Parthiban and exiles Veeramohan. Parthiban and Amudhavalli are happily married. But goaded by his father Parthiban wants to take over the kingdom by marrying the princess. He decides to kill Amudhavalli. He tricks her into going with him to a cliff edge and tells her of his intention to kill her. Amudavalli begs him for a chance to worship him by going around him three times before she meets her death. Parthiban grants her last wish. While going around him she pushes him to his death from behind. Shocked by her actions and her husband's betrayal, she confesses her sins and becomes a Buddhist nun. The raja guru is jailed and Veera mohan is reunited with the princess.The King of Northumbria is killed during a Viking raid led by the fearsome Ragnar . Because the king had died childless, his cousin Aella  takes the throne. The king's widow, however, is pregnant with what she knows is Ragnar's child, and to protect the infant from her cousin-in-law's ambitions, she sends him off to Italy. By a twist of fate, the ship is intercepted by the Vikings, who are unaware of the child's kinship, and enslave him. The boy grows into a young man named Erik . His parentage is finally discovered by Lord Egbert , a Northumbrian nobleman opposed to Aella. When Aella accuses him of treason, Egbert finds sanctuary with Ragnar in Norway. Egbert recognises the Northumbrian royal sword's pommel stone on an amulet around Erik's neck, placed there by Erik's mother when he was a child, but tells no one. Erik incurs the wrath of his half-brother Einar , Ragnar's legitimate son and heir, after the former orders his falcon to attack Einar, taking out one of his eyes. Erik is saved from immediate execution when the tribal shaman Kitala  says that Odin will curse whoever kills him. He is left in a tidal pool to drown with the rising tide by Ragnar's decree to avoid the curse, but after Erik calls out to Odin, the wind shifts and forces the water away, saving him. Egbert then claims him as his slave. Egbert hopes to find an opportunity to take advantage of Erik's unknown claim to the Northumbrian kingdom.   The enmity between Erik and Einar is exacerbated when they both fall in love with Princess Morgana , who was to marry King Aella but is captured in a raid suggested by Egbert. During a drunken feast in the "great hall", complete with giant mead caldrons and an axe-throwing competition, Einar confesses his feelings to Ragnar, who tells Einar he can have Morgana. Einar throws the guards off the ship Morgana is being held on, and begins to ravish her — defying his expectations of resistance, she submits to him, her emotions towards Einar clearly divided between attraction and revulsion. But before things can go any further, Erik grabs Einar from behind and knocks him out, then takes Morgana away on a small ship he had constructed for Egbert. Erik and Morgana flee to England, along with Sandpiper , Kitala and Morgana's maid Bridget . Einar regains consciousness and gives the alarm, and several pursuing longships quickly gain on the fugitives. In thick fog, Ragnar's longship hits a rock and sinks, while Erik's boat is guided safely by a primitive compass, a piece of magnetite in the shape of a fish that Sandpiper obtained in a distant land. Einar, in another longship, believes Ragnar to be dead and grudgingly abandons the chase. Ragnar, however, is rescued by Erik and taken prisoner to Aella. Erik and Morgana become lovers during the trip, and she agrees to seek release from her pledge to marry Aella. Aella orders the Viking leader bound and thrown into a pit filled with starved wolves. To give Ragnar a Viking's death , Erik, who is granted the honor of forcing him into the pit, cuts the prisoner's bonds and gives him his sword. Laughing, Ragnar jumps to his death. In response to Erik's "treason", Aella cuts off his left hand, puts him back on his ship and casts him adrift. Erik returns to Einar's settlement, and tells his half-brother how his father died, and what had been Aella's reward for allowing Ragnar to die a Viking's death. With this revelation, and the promise that Erik will guide their ships through the fog , Einar is finally able to persuade the other Vikings to mount an invasion of Northumbria. Putting their mutual hatred aside for the moment, Einar and Erik sail for England. The dragon longships land and the Vikings begin to move inland in force. The alarm is sounded and the terrified peasants abandon their fields and flocks and flee to take refuge within the castle. Soon the Vikings are arrayed in front of the fortress in full battle armor. Shouting the name of "Odin!", the Vikings storm Aella's castle. In a bold move, Einar has several Vikings throw axes at the closed drawbridge that bars entrance to the castle's keep. Several of the axe-throwers are killed, but enough survive to throw their axes that a "ladder" is created for Einar to climb after he leaps across the moat to the drawbridge. He gains entry to the keep and lowers the drawbridge so that the other Vikings can overwhelm the outnumbered English. Erik and Einar both set off in search of Morgana. Erik encounters Aella instead and shoves him into the wolf pit. Einar finds Morgana in the highest tower of the keep, and again begins to make love to her, telling her she will be his queen. In spite of her still obvious attraction to him, Morgana tells Einar she hates him, and loves Erik. Enraged, Einar drags her outside and calls Erik to their long-delayed battle. The two bitter rivals engage in a swordfight on top of the tower. Erik is defeated, his sword broken, but Einar hesitates to kill him. It is unclear whether his hesitation owes to the fact he has learned from Morgana that Erik is his half-brother, or from his own certitude that she will never be with him out of her own volition. This few-second window gives Erik, who does not yet know they share the same father, the opportunity to stab Einar with his sword's broken blade. Echoing the scene with Ragnar, Erik gives Einar a sword, so that he too can enter Valhalla. In the final scene, Einar is given a Viking funeral: his body is placed on a longship, which is set on fire by flaming arrows.Los Angeles teenager Gail Macaulay is going steady with deliveryman Chuck, a relationship that sparks jeaolusy in her younger sister Joan. When Joan needs her birth certificate in order to obtain summer employment, her mother Lois tells her to look in a box in her dresser, where the girl discovers Gail's adoption papers. That evening, at Gail's 18th birthday party, Joan flirts with Chuck, and when her angry sister confronts her, Joan reveals the truth about her background. The following morning, Lois tells Gail her biological father was killed in an accident before she was born, but her mother, Gert Lynch, is alive. Gail persuades Lois to have their lawyer arrange a meeting with her birth mother, but Lois decides to visit Gert in her Long Beach home first. Gert is thrilled to see photographs of Gail but is loath to let her second husband Jim know she has a child, so Lois arranges a meeting the following evening, when Jim will be out. After Gail and her friend Zaza depart for Gert's home, Lois receives a panicked phone call from the woman telling her Jim canceled his plans and is staying home to play cards with friends. Gert waits for the girls outside her house, but before they arrive Jim asks her to prepare refreshments. When Gail enters the house, Gert introduces her as the daughter of an old friend. Gert quietly explains the situation to Gail and apologizes for the mixup. Gail returns to the car and tells Zaza the reunion went well, then asks if she can spend the night at her house. Chuck, who had arrived at the Macaulay home just before Gail left for the ill-fated reunion with Gert, has spent the worried night with Gail's parents after having the situation explained to him. When Gail fails to return home, Gail's parents begin to worry and Chuck goes to Zaza's house and reproaches Gail for hurting the people who raised her and loved her as their own. This idea of family as "the people who are there for you" is reinforced when Gail learns that Zaza's father will not be attending their high school graduation ceremony, having chosen to attend an out-of-town party instead. At the graduation ceremony, Gail imbues her valedictory speech about citizenship with a loving message about the true meaning of family, to the delight of her parents, sisters, and Chuck.Nineteen-year-old high school student Danny Fisher  works before and after school in order to support his father  and sister Mimi . After Danny's mother died, his grieving father lost his job as a pharmacist, and moved his impoverished family to the French Quarter in New Orleans.  At work one morning, Danny rescues Ronnie  from her abusive date. After a taxi ride to Danny's high school, she kisses him. Danny responds to some schoolmates' teasing by kissing Ronnie back and then punching one of them in the face. That earns him a trip to the principal's office. Miss Pearson , his teacher, tells Danny that he will not graduate. Principal Mr. Evans  is sympathetic, but powerless to help, so Danny decides to drop out of school. When he leaves the school grounds, three young men take him into an alley. Their leader, Shark , wants revenge for Danny hitting his brother. Danny defends himself so well that Shark invites him to join them. Later, Mr. Fisher tries to convince his son to stay in school. Instead he helps Shark's gang shoplift at a "five-and-dime" by singing "Lover Doll" to distract the customers and staff.  Only Nellie , working at the snack bar, notices his complicity in the theft, but she does not turn him in. Danny invites Nellie to a fictitious party in a hotel room; finding nobody else there, she starts crying and leaves after admitting that she still wants to see him again, but not under those conditions. That night, Danny meets Ronnie again at "The Blue Shade" night club, where he is working. At first, she pretends not to know him, as she is accompanied by her boyfriend and the club's owner, Maxie Fields . When Maxie does not believe her, she claims she heard Danny sing once. Maxie insists that Danny prove he can sing. His rendition of "Trouble" impresses Charlie LeGrand , the owner of the "King Creole" club, the only nightspot in the area not owned by Maxie; he offers Danny a job as a singer. Meanwhile, Mr. Fisher gets work as a pharmacist in a drug store, but his boss, Mr. Primont ([[Gavin Gordon , is constantly demeaning him, much to Danny's embarrassment. That makes it easier for Danny to go against his father's wishes and take Charlie's offer. When Danny is a hit, Maxie tries to hire him. Danny declines his offer out of loyalty to Charlie. Shark, now working for Maxie, suggests to Danny they beat up Primont to help his father. When Mr. Fisher leaves the store dressed in Primont's hat and coat , Shark recognizes him, but decides to mug him anyway, as that would be even better for Maxie's purposes. Danny's father is so badly injured, he needs an expensive operation; Maxie pays for a specialist to perform it. Maxie later blackmails Danny into signing with him by threatening to tell his father about his involvement in the mugging, then does it anyway. Danny pummels Maxie for the betrayal and helps Ronnie leave him. Maxie sends his henchmen after Danny. Shark and another gang member trap him in an alley. Danny knocks out one of his pursuers. Then Shark stabs Danny, but is himself killed. Ronnie finds Danny and takes him to her house on a bayou to recover. She asks him to forget her sordid past and pretend to love her. Danny replies that it would not be difficult and kisses her. Maxie drives up, accompanied by Dummy , a member of Danny's former gang. Maxie fatally shoots Ronnie. Dummy, who had been befriended by Danny, grapples with Maxie; the gun goes off, killing its owner. Danny returns to the "King Creole". He sings the lines "Let's think of the future, forget the past, you're not my first love, but you're my last" to Nellie in the audience. Mr Fisher shows up to listen to his son sing.Sabrina Fairchild  is the young daughter of the Larrabee family's chauffeur, Thomas ([[John Williams , and has been in love with David Larrabee  all her life. David is an oft-married, idle playboy, crazy for women, who has never noticed Sabrina, much to her and the staff's dismay. Sabrina then attends culinary school in Paris and returns as an attractive and sophisticated woman. Hepburn sings "La vie en rose" , the signature song of French singer Édith Piaf{{emdash}}which had been highly popular in the English-speaking world as well as in France, since Piaf came out with it in 1946. The occasion for Hepburn to sing it is at the episode of Sabrina's return from Paris, when she is far more assertive than before setting out, and her life does turn rosier. David, after initially not recognizing her, is quickly drawn to her. David's workaholic older brother Linus  sees this and fears that David's imminent wedding with a very rich woman, Elizabeth , may be endangered. If the wedding were to be canceled, so would a great corporate deal with the bride's family. So Linus tries to redirect Sabrina's affections, and in the process falls in love with her. At the end Sabrina sets off for Paris on a boat, after Linus has told her to leave and never come back. The next day Linus has second thoughts and decides to call off his brother's wedding with Elizabeth and send David off on the ship to Paris with Sabrina. He calls a board meeting to announce his decision, but when it turns out that David has not boarded the ship, but instead intends to go through with the marriage, Linus realizes that he is in love with Sabrina. He manages to get on the boat, and the couple sails away together to Paris.The film tells the story of John Hamilton  who's retreated to Stoneville, Connecticut, in the New England countryside, to pursue a career as a commercial artist, but his wife Linda  wants to go back to New York. She is observed as being both drunk and a little strange by the town-folk. Then his alcoholic and psychologically disturbed wife disappears one day. When she does John is suspected of killing his wife.{{Plot}} In 1919, Terrance  and Molly  Donahue, a husband-and-wife vaudeville team known as the Donahues, pursue both a stable family life as well as success with their rendition of Midnight Train to Alabam. The kids Steve, Katy, and Tim join the act one by one, their act eventually becomes the Five Donahues. Molly persuades Terry to send them to a Catholic boarding school, but the youngsters continually try to run away. Terry and Molly buy a home in New Jersey for their brood, but when the Depression hits Terry and Molly are forced to take whatever jobs they can find. Eventually, movie theaters come to their rescue by providing live stage entertainment, and the Donahues are back to performing. In 1937, Tim graduates from high school, and the act becomes the Five Donahues once again. The family is a success and have soon hit the top, thrilling audiences at New York's famed Hippodrome Theatre with an extravagant multi-themed performance of "Alexander's Ragtime Band". One night after a show, a worried Molly and Terry return home alone while Katy goes out on a date, Steve takes a walk, and the womanizing Tim goes out with an older chorus girl. Katy and Tim both wind up at a nightclub, Gallagher's Golden Pheasant Room, where Tim teases Victoria Hoffman,  a hatcheck girl about the unnatural elocution her singing teacher has instructed her to practice. Vicky forgets Tim's wisecracks though, when Eddie, her agent, informs her that he has persuaded famed producer Lew Harris to visit the club. With the help of her co-workers, Vicky gets onstage and impresses Lew and Tim with her singing After You Get What You Want, . Backstage, Vicky learns that Tim is one of the well known Donahues but quickly dismisses him in order to talk business with Harris. Back at the Donahue home, Molly and Terry welcome Katy and then Steve, who informs his family that he wants to become a priest. Terry is distraught over his son's decision, but their discussion is interrupted by the appearance of Tim, who got drunk after he was dismissed by Vicky. Escorting Tim upstairs to sleep it off and nearly drowning him by dunking his head into a large sink to sober him up, Molly worries aloud if he hasn't bitten off more than he can chew. Tim goes to sleep and Molly heads downstairs to deal with Katy being out all night, with her six-dollar and twenty-cent cab ride home, and with Steve's decision to become a priest.  Katy tells her father not to be so shocked and disappointed, because maybe Steve could end up a cardinal. Wailing in frustration, Terry tells the family that the only cardinal he wants in his family is one who plays ball for St. Louis . Later, having accepted Steve's choice, the family throws him a farewell party with songs, dances, and impressions, the centerpiece of which is a performance of their parents' old Alabam' act by Tim and Katy. Steve tells the assembly that he hopes everyone will come see his new act when it is worked up in the seminary over the next four years and follows this with an up-tempo jazz-influenced gospel tinged version of If You Believe after which Molly and the gang belt out a chorus of Remember. Molly is crying afterward and Terry is just about to, but they both understand that eventually the bird has to leave the nest and go out on his own. After the party, the rechristened Four Donahues accept an engagement in Miami. Upon arrival, Tim is thrilled to find that Vicky, now known as Vicky Parker, is also appearing there; however she is performing a considerably more sensual version of the same "Heat Wave" number as the family. After falling in complete lust with Vicky's performance, Tim gives his approval for her to perform the number without checking with the family beforehand. Vicky is a sensation and, although she gently shrugs off his proposals so that she can focus on her career, Tim falls in love with her as a result. Molly, still irate that Vicky "stole" her song, is further irritated upon learning that Harris is staging a Broadway revue around Vicky, and that Vicky wants Tim and Katy to join her without Molly and Terry. Realizing what a great opportunity this is, Terry persuades Molly to let the kids go and she agrees, on one condition. They have to take the four expensive Cuban costumes as well, originally intended for the family's version of the "Heat Wave" number they let Vicky perform instead. They all share a laugh, and soon Molly and Terry are performing on their own again while Tim and Katy rehearse with Vicky in New York. Katy begins dating Charlie Gibbs the show's tall and spare lyricist, and after Steve is ordained, he asks whether or not Steve can perform a small wedding ceremony in the near future. Shocked and annoyed, Katy demands to know whom Charlie plans to marry with her brother officiating, and Charlie tells her sweetly that she herself is the candidate. Having heard none of this in advance, Katy is pleasantly surprised and they set the date. Tim continues dating Vicky, but one night a wardrobe mistress passes in the hallway with a new dress, telling Vicky that Harris selected it as her opening statement. Feeling that the dress makes the most completely inappropriate opening statement not to mention being the most completely wrong shade of purple as well, she phones back to the club and postpones her dinner date with Tim in order to discuss the matter with Harris. The costume designer, a tall, spare haute-couture man chimes in, correcting her that the color is not purple; it's `heliotrope.' Vicky angrily complains that no matter whether the dress is heliotrope, hydrangea, or petunia it's still the wrong shade of purple for her, not to mention the most completely unflattering style. Harris, equally annoyed, reminds Vicky that the dress cost $1400, and that's not heliotrope. Vicky loses track of time and stands Tim up, and Tim, mistakenly assuming that Vicky is having an affair with Harris, gets drunk and comes back to the theatre where he confronts Vicky about her supposed affair. She is stung by the accusation and annoyed that a fellow performer such as Tim, who was born to the business of performing, should chastise her for trying to follow her love of the theatre and doing whatever it takes to reach her goals. She denies his accusations but also spurns Tim in his drunken state. Tim leaves the theatre with one of the chorus girls, goes out and gets even more drunk, and becomes involved in a car accident. Molly and Terry learn of the accident just hours before opening night of the show for which Vicky and Katy have been rehearsing and Terry goes down to the hospital to confront Tim about his conduct. Tim rebuffs the advice, whereupon Terry slaps him across the face and storms out. In the meantime, Molly has gone down to the theatre to be with Katy in this trying time. Lew Harris is beside himself and trying to decide if he should postpone the opening, but Molly, who has been rehearsing extensively with Katy, convinces Harris that while she'll have to fake the dancing, a feat with which she's been getting away for decades, she can go on in Tim's place. After all is decided the show is a resounding success on opening night. The next day Terry and Molly go back to the hospital to pick up Tim but discover that he has vanished, leaving behind a note apologizing for his behavior. Molly and Terry are both heartbroken but decide to take action. While Molly continues to perform in the show, the Donahues hire private detectives to search for Tim, and they scour the clubs and bars of New York looking for him. After almost a year, Steve joins the Army as a chaplain, while Molly still blames Vicky for Tim's disappearance. When Molly tells Terry that the Donahues are being sought for a benefit performance at the Hippodrome before it is closed the following May, Terry shows no interest and instead disappears by train to search for Tim. During the montage, we see him reminisce about all the good times they shared with Tim. Months later, on the day of the benefit, Katy, who has become close friends with Vicky, arranges for her to share a dressing room with Molly. Annoyed at the arrangement, Molly begins to pack up and head upstairs for some peace and quiet, however, Katy not only tells her mother that she'll be doing nothing of the kind, but that she needs to apologize to Vicky for snubbing her at every turn for the past year. Incensed at this, Molly demands that Vicky speak up for herself about how true and deep her love is for Tim and Molly buys it.  Finally forgiving Vicky, Molly is also comforted by the arrival of Steve, who, after telling her that Vicky must be quite a girl for putting up with all Tim's shenanigans all this time, tells her not to lose hope. Molly agrees, telling Steve that she was wrong again. As Molly performs the title song, Steve and Katy watch from the wings; then Tim, wearing a US Navy uniform, appears behind them. Katy sees him first and takes him deeply into a silent embrace. His brother Steve follows and together they try to attract Molly's attention onstage, finally succeeding. Molly hesitates when she sees Tim but completes the number before running offstage to embrace her son. Tim tells her that he had to work things out for himself, and the family is finally complete when Terry joins them a few minutes later, having come to see the benefit after all. Thrilled to be reunited, the Five Donahues, with Vicky holding Tim's hand, go onstage and happily reprise a short encore of their version of "Alexander's Ragtime Band." The six principals then march down a flight of stairs out of view and a chorus of men and women all in multicolored flowing attire circle around the perimeter going up and down the stairs singing the title song. The six principals then come up on a platform in the middle thereof, adding their vocals to the chorus, and the film concludes with their finale.Lloyd "Ace" Gruver, a major and the son of a U.S. Army general, is stationed at Itami Air Force Base  near Kobe, Japan. He falls in love with a Japanese entertainer  who is a performer for a Takarazuka-like theater company, whom he meets through his enlisted crew chief, Airman Kelly. Kelly is about to wed a Japanese woman, Katsumi, in spite of the disapproval of the United States military, which will not recognize the marriage. The Air Force, including Gruver, is against the marriage. Gruver and Kelly have an argument during which Gruver uses a racial slur to describe Kelly's fiancee. Gruver eventually apologizes, then agrees to be Kelly's best man at the wedding. Kelly suffers further prejudice at the hands of a particularly nasty colonel, pulling extra duty and all the less-attractive assignments. When he and many others who are married to Japanese are ordered back to the States, Kelly realizes he will not be able to take his wife, who is now pregnant. Finding no other way to be together, Kelly and Katsumi commit double suicide. This strengthens Major Gruver's resolve to marry his own Japanese lover. When asked by a Stars and Stripes reporter what will he say to both the "big brass" as well as to the Japanese, neither of which will be particularly happy, Major Gruver says, "Tell 'em we said 'Sayonara.'" The ending in the movie, however, differs from that of the book, in which Gruver says "sayonara" to his Japanese girlfriend and returns to the States.Ann  is the crown princess of an unspecified country. She is on a widely publicized tour of several European capitals, including Rome. One night, she is overwhelmed by the strenuous demands of her official duties, for which her day is tightly scheduled. Her doctor gives her a sedative to calm her down and help her sleep, but she secretly leaves her country's embassy to experience Rome by herself. The sedative eventually takes effect and she falls asleep on a bench, where Joe Bradley , an expatriate American reporter working for the Rome Daily American, finds her. Not recognizing her, he offers her money so that she can take a taxi home, but a very woozy "Anya Smith"  refuses to cooperate. Joe finally decides, for safety's sake, to let her spend the night in his apartment. He is amused by her regal manner, but less so when she appropriates his bed. He transfers her to a couch without awakening her. The next morning, Joe, having already slept through the interview Princess Ann was scheduled to give, hurries off to the news office, leaving her still asleep. When his editor, Mr. Hennessy , asks why he is late, Joe lies to him; he claims to have attended the press conference for the princess. Joe makes up details of the alleged interview until Hennessy informs him that the press conference had been canceled because the princess had suddenly "fallen ill". Joe sees a picture of her and recognizes that it is the same young woman who is in his apartment. Joe immediately sees the opportunity before him and proposes an exclusive interview for $5000, Hennessy agrees but bets Joe $500 that he will not succeed. Joe hurries home and, hiding the fact that he is a reporter, he offers to spend the day with Anya, showing her Rome. He also surreptitiously calls his photographer friend, Irving Radovich , to tag along to secretly take pictures. However, Anya declines Joe's offer and leaves.  Enjoying her freedom, on a whim, Anya gets her hair cut short in a barbershop. Joe follows and "accidentally" meets her on the Spanish Steps. This time he convinces her to go with him, and they spend the day seeing the sights, including the "Mouth of Truth", a face carved in marble which is said to bite off the hands of liars. When Joe pulls his hand out of the mouth, it appears to be missing, causing Anya to scream. He then pops his hand out of his sleeve and laughs. An Evening with Gregory Peck, a series of retrospective lectures Peck gave in the years before his death, and Remembering Roman Holiday, a featurette on the 2002 DVD release. Later, Anya shares with Joe her dream of living a normal life without her crushing responsibilities. That night, at a dance on a boat, government agents finally track her down and try to escort her away, but a wild melee breaks out and Joe and Anya escape. Through all this, they gradually fall in love, but Anya realizes that their relationship cannot continue. She finally bids farewell to Joe and returns to the embassy. During the course of the day, Hennessy learns that the princess is missing, not ill as claimed. He suspects that Joe knows where she is, and tries to get him to admit it, but Joe claims to know nothing about it. Joe decides not to write the story. Initially, Irving plans to publish his photographs, but then reluctantly decides not to do so.  The next day, Princess Ann appears at the postponed news conference, and is alarmed to find Joe and Irving among the members of the press. Irving takes her picture with the same miniature cigarette lighter/camera he had used the previous day. He then presents her with the photographs he had taken that day, discreetly tucked in an envelope, as a memento of her adventure. Joe lets her know, by allusion, that her secret is safe with them. She, in turn, works into her bland statements a coded message of love and gratitude to Joe. She then departs, leaving Joe to linger for a while, contemplating what might have been.The Austrian empress, nicknamed Sissi, enjoys travelling through Hungary, where she ultimately finds the politically priceless affection of local Count Andrássy too intimate. But this is only temporary relief from the frustrations of court life in Vienna, where dutiful Franz remains chained to his desk and leaves his chillingly strict mother Sophie interfering, even in the upbringing of their daughter, Gisella. When Sissi is diagnosed with possibly fatal tuberculosis and Franz has to allow Sophie to remove their daughter on doctor's warning, Sissi is in danger of losing the will to live while exiled to recovery-inducing climates on Madeira and Corfu). Then desperately needed psychosomatic therapy appears in the form of her indestructibly positive mother Ludovika. She lovingly nurses both her sickness and her taste for life on idyllic walks. Once again Oberst Böckl, the clumsy body-guard whose doting admiration for the empress borders on the improper, provides a comical note, as he does in each part of the trilogy. Finally, Sissi is well enough to rejoin her husband on an official visit to Milan and Venice, part of Austria's remaining possessions in northern Italy. Nationalists have prepared a hostile welcome for the Habsburg sovereigns; the Italian nobility creates a provokation by sending their dressed-up servants to a royal command performance at La Scala and the crowds stand in hostile silence at the couple's procession by royal barge on the Grand Canal. But the emotional Italians melt for the ostentatiously loving reunion of Sissi and her little daughter on St Mark's SquareJoe Norson  lives with his in-laws in New York City after losing his gas station and has found work as a part-time mail carrier. Because he wants the best for his expectant wife Ellen , Joe rationalizes stealing what he thinks is $200 from a lawyer's office on his route. He discovers that he's actually stolen $30,000 from Victor Backett , a corrupt attorney. Backett has framed wealthy broker-patsy Emil Lorrison ([[Paul Harvey  in a sex scandal, then extorted the money from him with the help of Lucille Colner  and ex-con accomplice George Garsell ([[James Craig . From the start, Joe begins to panic. He explains his new-found wealth to Ellen as a lucrative out-of-town job, then disguises the money as a package and leaves it with bartender Nick Drumman . In the meantime Lucille's body is found in the East River, strangled, and Capt. Walter Anderson ([[Paul Kelly  of the New York Police Department investigates the murder. Both Lorrison and Backett are interviewed, names found in her "love diary." After the birth of his child, Joe decides to try to return his ill-gotten gain, but Backett suspects a trap and refuses the offer. Backett instead sends Garsell and a taxi cab driver accomplice to grab Joe and recover the cash. Joe is able to escape after they discover that Drumman has substituted a nightgown in the package and gone into hiding with the money. Joe looks for Drumman, but Garsell finds the bartender first, strangles him, and recovers the money. Joe confesses the original theft to Ellen, who urges him to turn himself in, but he finds himself a suspect in Drumman's murder. He tries to track down the source of the money to clear himself, even as Capt. Anderson methodically pursues both men as suspects, Garsell for Lucille and Joe for Drumman. Joe locates Garsell's girlfriend, singer Harriette Sinton , but she betrays him to Garsell. Garsell plans to murder Joe, strangles Harriette to eliminate her as a witness, and takes both in the taxi cab to dump them into the river. Capt. Anderson is hot on their heels and a chase ensues through the early morning streets of New York. Garsell kills his partner and forces Joe to drive, but Joe deliberately crashes the taxi to end the nightmare. When Garsell tries to run out of the car, he is shot by the police and killed. Joe is carried out of the car by the police and taken into the ambulance. Ellen arrives just before he leaves, and they embrace before he goes to the hospital. Joe survives the accident, and the police are able to learn the truth so Joe is cleared of the crime.Eric Wainwright , a busy impresario, is besieged by hordes of wannabe concert stars, eager for their big break. One of them is Cynthia Potter , a talented pianist, but she can't get in to see him. When she learns that Wainwright is auditioning young musicians for a children's concert tour, Cynthia dons braces and bobby sox and passes herself off as a child prodigy.Ellen Pierce  is very happily married to architect Dan . However, due to a bout of rheumatic fever in her childhood, her heart is weak and she cannot exert herself too much; how frail she is, she does not really know. Her wealthy father  and the family doctor ([[Ray Collins  have kept from her the fact that she probably only has a few more months to live. When Ellen visits acquaintance Maud Redwick , Dan's embittered former girlfriend, Maud reminds her about a vicious remark she had made at Ellen and Dan's wedding that he was only a "loan" for about a year. That, plus an invitation addressed to Dan to a medical conference and various other clues, leads Ellen to discover the truth, not only about her prognosis, but also an even more devastating secret: that her father had arranged the marriage to make her happy, and that Dan did not love her. When Dan finds out, he confesses via flashbacks that he had initially rejected her father's offer, but due to a lack of success in his career, he had indeed married her at her father's behest. However, he claims that he has since fallen deeply in love with her. He tells her about a Doctor Toynberry who has come up with a new technique that has a good chance of curing her and begs her to undergo the operation he has arranged for her. If it is a success, they will know by spring. After absorbing everything, she goes through with the medical procedure. The film flashes forward to the spring, with her healthy and blissfully still married to Dan.Moe and Larry marry Shemp's overweight sisters , and discover to their horror after the vows that the girls are a couple of battle axes. After being kicked out from their place, the new bridegrooms vow revenge on Shemp for introducing them. Later, Shemp has a voice lesson with student, Fanny Dinkelmeyer since he is a music teacher. He then discovers that he has to marry a woman within seven hours to receive $500,000 from his dead Uncle's will. After some searching, the Stooges finally find Shemp's student, Ms. Dinkelmeyer. Several of Shemp's old girlfriends, and gold diggers, all arrive at the Justice of the Peace's office, wreaking havoc in an attempt to marry Shemp for his money. But Shemp weds the harridan, just under the deadline, and then discovers that there is no dead Uncle or will, and that everything was Moe's and Larry's revenge. Shemp gets so angry, he takes out a gun and shoots Moe and Larry in the rear end as they try to flee.Lokanatham  is proprietor of Annapurna Rice Mill. Paramesam  works as Gumasta under him. These both are the Thodu Dongalu and jointly operate many mischiefs. One day one of the factory employees Ramudu  dies of Electric shock. Both the thieves throws his dead body from the hill top without the knowledge of others. Paramesam feels guilty and suffers from Heart problem. Ghost of Ramudu tries to empower Paramesam. Doctors declare that he would not live more than a month. He goes to nearby town for peace of mind. He encounters an employee who is living idealist life. This transforms him and he returns to the village, convinces his proprietor and sanctions compensation of Rs. 2,000 to the family of bereaved Ramudu. This relieves him from the mental anxiety. Finally, the proprietor handover the factory keys to him with confidence.Having been sent a picture of her husband, a war hero killed in France, Meg Elgin is led to believe he is still alive and arranges a meeting at a London railway station. When she arrives there with the police accompanying her, she catches sight of a man in the distance wearing an old coat of her husband's. When he is pursued and captured, he turns out to be Duds Morrison a former soldier and out-of-work actor recently let out of prison. He refuses to tell them anything, and having nothing they can charge him with, the police release him. His interest aroused by the pictures sent to Meg, her new fiancé Geoffrey Leavitt follows Morrison and tries to demand an answer from him about his sudden appearance masquerading as Meg’s dead husband. Morrison again refuses to talk, and tries to flee from Leavitt - into an ally where he is set upon by a gang of ex-soldiers who beat him to death and take Leavitt off as a prisoner. It is soon revealed that they are ex-commandos and former comrades of Morrison, with whom they served on a raid in Brittany in the Second World War. The commander of the raid had been Major Elgin, the husband of Meg. They were led to believe that Elgin had secreted a large amount of treasure in a house in Brittany and now that he is dead they are desperate to get their hands on it. They are wary of their former Sergeant, a psychopath named Jack Havoc, who has recently escaped from prison and committed several murders, who is also seeking out the treasure. Believing that Morrison was an accomplice of Havoc, they attacked him. Wearing their old uniforms they have spent the past few years trying to carve out a living as street musicians, begging from passers by. Realising that releasing Leavitt might open them to being charged for the murder of Morrison, they bind him up and keep him as a prisoner. He is rescued later by a patrol policemen who investigates the squat while the musicians are out. Leavitt returns to Meg and together they head to Brittany to find the treasure. Havoc, now united with his former comrades, also travels to France where he discovers to his disgust that when Major Elgin had spoken of his ‘priceless’ treasure he had in fact been referring to its artistic beauty rather than its monetary worth. The treasure is in fact a statue of the Madonna.{{Plot}} Carrie Meeber ([[Jennifer Jones  leaves her family in a small rural town and heads to Chicago. On the train to Chicago, Charles Drouet  approaches her. Although Carrie is reluctant to speak to him, the salesman persists and the two chat until they reach Chicago. Carrie gets off in South Chicago, the slums as Charles Drouet points out, after taking Drouet's business card. In South Chicago, Carrie stays with her sister, who is married and has one child. Her sister's husband takes $5 from her for room and board and Carrie works at a factory sewing shoes. When she gets her finger caught in the sewing machine she is fired. After an exhausting and fruitless day of job hunting, Carrie looks up Charles Drouet. He not only talks her into having dinner with him at Fitzgerald's, an upscale restaurant, but also gives her $10. Carrie knows that this is more than "compromising" but she doesn't see any other possibilities. Her sister and brother-in-law won't take "that kind of money." So Carrie, in order to stay with her sister, heads to Fitzgerald's to return the money to Drouet. While there she meets George Hurstwood , the manager of the restaurant, who is immediately smitten with her. Instead of taking the money and returning it on her behalf to Drouet, he brings the two together, seats them himself and sends them a bottle of champagne. Carrie ends up moving in with Drouet. He is a big talker but basically harmless. She pressures Drouet to marry her because the neighbors are talking about them. He tries to distract her and invites Hurstwood, whom he had run into by sheer coincidence, into their home. With Drouet's permission, Hurstwood takes Carrie to the theater while Drouet is on one of his many business trips. Hurstwood and Carrie end up spending every free minute together, and the two fall in love. Just before she is about to run off with Hurstwood, she finds out that he is married. She is distraught and confronts Hurstwood, who admits that he is married although terribly unhappy. At the restaurant, Hurstwood cashes up for the night and, by accidentally locking a timed safe, finds himself stuck with $10,000 of his boss's money. He goes home with the money and is initially pleased to find his boss there. He tries to give the money to his boss, but when he learns that his boss intends to give his salary directly to his wife because of his relationship with Carrie, he decides to take the money to run away with Carrie. He leaves an I-O-U intent on paying his boss back as soon as he made it on his own feet. He coaxes Carrie, who initially refuses to see him, out of the house by telling her that Drouet had injured himself and that he would take her to see him. On the train to Drouet, Hurstwood tells her that he loves her and that the wants to be with her, asking her to leave Drouet. Carrie is torn, she does love Hurstwood and so she decides to stay with him. The first few days are blissful, but then reality catches up with them. Hurstwood's boss sends an officer from the bond company after Hurstwood to collect the money Hurstwood took. Hurstwood, who has already been looking for work, finds out quickly that word of him stealing the money has gotten around. Unable to find a job, Hurstwood and Carrie soon find themselves living in poverty. When Carrie finds out that she is pregnant, the two think that things might take a turn for the better. But Hurstwood's wife shows up, wanting his signature and allowing her to sell the house they own jointly. Hurstwood wants his share of the proceeds but she says she will press charges against him for bigamy if he insists. Carrie is devastated. Hurstwood's wife refused to get a divorce and Hurstwood didn't know how to tell Carrie. Hurstwood tells his wife, he will sign and won't ask for money if she'll grant him a divorce. She does but it is too late. Carrie loses the baby and decides to try her luck at acting. Hurstwood reads in the newspaper that his son is due in New York after his honeymoon and decides to see him at the docks. While he is there, Carrie leaves him  because she thinks he will use this opportunity to re-enter his family's life. While Hurstwood drifts further and further into poverty and ends up living on the streets, Carrie's star in the theatre rises until she is a well-regarded actress on the cusp of fame. Hurstwood, entirely starved, visits her at the theatre stage door, and she wants to take him back. She had found out from Drouet that Hurstwood had taken the money to start a life with her and blames herself for his predicament. She wants to make it up to Hurstwood but he won't take more than a quarter and disappears after toying with the gas burner in her dressing room.Kalvanin Kadhali is the story of a dacoit and his beloved, Muththaiyan and Kalyani. At the PoonkuLam village, Kalyani falls for good-hearted Muththaiyan. Circumstances brand Muththaiyan a dacoit, but Kalyani remains steadfast in her love. Evading the police, Muthaiyan leads the life of an exile in the forest. When things come to a head, Muththaiyan and Kalyani decide to run away to some far-off place and settle down to marital bliss. Muththaiyan’s loyal friend Kamalapathi , who is a stage actor makes all arrangements for their escape. In order to hoodwink the vigilant police inspector Shastri, Kamalapathi disguises himself as a woman and goes to the forest to meet Muthaiyan and appraise him of the plans. When Kalyani comes to the appointed place, she finds Muthaiyan embracing another woman. Not realizing that it is Kamalapathi whom Muththaiyan is expressing his heart-felt thanks to, she suspects her lover’s loyalty and runs away in a rage. Inspector Shastri, who is also in disguise, meets Kalyani at this juncture and enquires Muththaiyan’s whereabouts. Unthinking in her anger, Kalyani blurts out Muththaiyan’s location. Seeing Shastri run with his gun, Kalyani realizes that he is a police officer, and runs after him. The story ends in tragedy where the lovers unite in death.The Stooges awake one morning to their mother's cry, "Now that I'm old your father has divorced me!" The letter states that their father  has just become rich via an oil well and is planning to leave their mother and marry a young gold digging blonde . The Stooges set off to try and stop the wedding. But since Shemp and his father look exactly alike, the broad ends up marrying the wrong man. In the finale of the short, the Stooges manage to escape the clutches of the criminals trying to kill them for their father's oil money, and rescue their father, by literally "dragging" him home to Ma.Florence Farley, a tennis prodigy, is torn between fulfilling the dreams of her ambitious mother Millie who has planned her tennis career, or her own dreams of being with the man she loves.Rancher John Garth is arrested for critically wounding his wife Valerie and killing her parents. During the trial, we flashback to the lead up to the incident.In 1931, Lon Rambeau sends his daughter Elizabeth Rambeau away from London to Napa Valley, California to visit Lon's father Philippe Rambeau and Phillipe's sister Martha Fairon, owners of vast vineyards and a grand estate. Philippe and Martha welcome Elizabeth lavishly, then reveal the real reason for the celebration of her arrival: her betrothal, unknown to Elizabeth, between her and her cousin, Andre Swann. John Rambeau, obviously disliked by matriarch Martha, arrives at the party, flirts with Elizabeth and leads her out into the vineyards, where he mischievously reveals Rambeau family secrets: Philippe uses marriage to tighten the family hold on the valley; Phillipe's sister Martha and daughter Charlotte  had been married off to local landowners in order to increase the vineyard holdings &mdash; Phillipe now wants to marry off grand-daughter Elizabeth to Andre in order to absorb the Stag's Leap Winery . Continuing his explanation, John points out his house nearby, where his invalid mother Charlotte now lives, and says that he now knows that Martha's husband  is his real father, even though everyone claims that Charlotte's late husband had been the biological father to both John and his sister Monica. John then takes the speechless Elizabeth into his arms and kisses her, but she pulls away and runs into the house. The next day, John gets into an argument with Philippe by insisting that they ignore Prohibition laws and sell their grapes  to bootleggers. Philippe, who loves John, insists on remaining lawful, explaining once again how he will continue to cultivate and study wines until the time comes to sell them legally. John volunteers to show Elizabeth around the winery, bitterly pointing out the vast stores of wine going to waste. When he asks her about her past and tries to kiss her again, she once again pulls away. As they wander the estate, one of the female workers, Buz Dietrick, flirts with John. Back at the house, Martha spirits Elizabeth away to a lunch with Andre, who is quite comfortable with the idea of an arranged marriage. Meeting with the local association of grape growers, John tells them that he will make them rich by selling their grapes to a syndicate in Chicago. Some of the traditional growers insist on gaining Philippe's approval first. Ignoring them, John leaves for Chicago to meet with the syndicate &mdash; soon after, thugs arrive in the Napa Valley and force the growers to sign contracts. When John returns to Napa months later, the growers, now grown rich from John's arrangement with the Chicago syndicate, welcome him warmly. John meets the growers at a nightclub, where he finds Buz sitting with her boyfriend, Luigi Griffanti. They all watch Elizabeth and Andre  dance. John once again romances Elizabeth, who, hoping to dissuade his interest, reveals to him that her father had sent her away from England because she had been involved in a torrid love affair with a cruel man, and she now desires a safe marriage with Andre. A jealous John accuses her of "prostituting" herself for real estate, and she slaps him. John then turns to Buz for comfort, convincing her to leave Luigi and drive off with him. Later, Andre drives Elizabeth home, where he confesses that he is growing to love her. Inside, Martha, aware of Elizabeth's ambivalent feelings over John, confronts her about her past, urging her to marry Andre before he realizes he is getting "damaged goods." John returns home and tells his mother he will leave the next day for Chicago. The next day Elizabeth, having had a change of heart, races off to see John before his train leaves &mdash; she finds him at the station and tells him she loves him. Thrilled, John insists that she wait for his return. A few months later, a pregnant Buz shows up at the estate to inform Phillipe that the baby is John's &mdash; Buz and her father blackmail Philippe. Elizabeth, nearby, hears all, and collapses with grief. Martha directs Buz to tell Luigi the baby is his. Buz and Luigi soon marry, but she fights with both him and his mother when they want to name the baby Cesare, and she wants to name the baby ... John. Months pass. Martha tries to convince an impatient Andre to wait for Elizabeth to set a wedding date. When John finally returns to Napa Valley, Elizabeth is up in the mountain orchard with Philippe, listening to him explain that this is sacred ground to him, as it was his first plot of land, and his beloved wife is buried here. At the estate, Martha greets John coldly and warns him that he must now conduct business through her, because Philippe is ill. After successfully persuading Martha that they can make millions by selling the Rambeau grapes to the Chicago syndicate, John drives to the mountain orchard. There, Philippe, horrified by John's shady dealings, commands him to leave, as does Elizabeth, who tells him she knows the truth about Buz's baby. Protesting that he can prove that Buz has lied, John races away, accidentally throwing a lit cigarette into the parched fields, starting a blaze. By the time the fire is noticed, it is too late, and the out-of-control wildfire destroys most of the mountain orchard. Unaware of the fire, John rushes to Buz's house, where mother-in-law Griffanti, upon hearing John's name, figures out that John is her grandson's actual father. As Buz agrees that she will tell Elizabeth that the baby is not John's, Luigi, at his mother's urging, attacks John in a jealous rage. John manages to get away, but Luigi pulls out a gun and shoots him. At the hospital, John is diagnosed with temporary partial paralysis &mdash; when Elizabeth visits to beg his forgiveness, he turns away from her bitterly. Soon, he is able to walk with crutches, and returns home, where he tells his uncle Francis and mother Charlotte that he knows about their affair, which resulted in his birth. John takes the blame for the orchard fire &mdash; in return, he forgives the two of them for their deceit, and asks for their forgiveness in exchange. Months later, Philippe dies, and matriarch Martha gathers the family together for the reading of the will. To Martha's shock and dismay, Philippe has divided the estate equally between his children and grandchildren &mdash; he also leaves the mountain orchard to John, the valley vineyards to the still-unmarried Elizabeth, and nothing to Martha. Although Martha is greatly pained by what she sees as an injustice, both she and her husband Francis realize that now she will finally be more interested in her husband and her marriage, instead of the family business. Within a few weeks, John has restored his mountain orchard to health. One day, Elizabeth joins him with a gift: a grape vine cutting from her valley vineyard. They graft the valley cutting onto a mountain vine, talk about the melding of "valley sweetness" with "mountain strength", and, finally, fall into each other's arms, declaring their love for each other.Young Andy Stannard is kidnapped from school by a woman disguised as a nurse. His shaken parents, Dave and Edith, notify the police. Dave Stannard is a wealthy executive. Helped by his brother and business partner Al, he prepares to pay a $500,000 ransom demanded by the kidnappers. But the chief of police, Jim Backett, and a newspaper reporter, Charlie Telfer, tell him that the odds are his son won't be returned whether or not he pays the ransom. Dave decides to turn the tables on the kidnappers. He appears on television, refusing to pay and instead placing the money before him as a bounty on their heads if his son is not safely returned. Dave is vilified by his wife, brother and the public for his decision. He is left virtually alone at home, wondering until the very last minute if his gamble was worth the risk. Andy  returns to his father Dave, in the house garden in the late evening, in a new shirt making a poignant parental love scene.Ginko  works as a geisha to support her poor family, even though she has trained as a shoemaker to work with her father . She works first in Tokyo, then in northern Japan, and then in Tokyo again. She catches pneumonia and is carried home to die, but in the end her younger sister Tokiko dies and she lives.The Stooges are artists who fall in love with three models, Larraine, Moella and Shempetta. They go to ask their father for their hands in marriage. He denies their request when he recognizes them as the "hoodlums" who accosted him earlier. After a wild chase around the house, the Stooges catch him, and tickle his feet until he changes his mind. Eventually, he agrees, and the boys marry their girls. Later, all three couples finally have a baby of their own.Following the battle of Sekigahara, Takezo  and his friend Matahachi  find themselves on the losing side. Instead of the grand victory and glory Takezo had anticipated, he finds himself a hunted fugitive. The pair seek shelter with a widow and her daughter. Both women attempt to seduce Takezo but are rejected. The widow then tells Matahachi that Takezo tried to assault her and convinces him to escort her and her daughter to Kyoto. Matahachi agrees even though he loves  Otsu , a woman from his village. Takezo returns to his village to tell Matahachi's family that he is still alive. Matahachi's mother doesn't believe him and he is arrested for treason. There is a village wide search for Takezo, organized by the lord. Even after using his relatives as bait, the villagers cannot catch Takezo. Takezo is finally captured by the Buddhist priest Takuan Sōhō, who tells the lord that he must be allowed to use his methods to control him. The priest believes that he can straighten him out, but Takezo escapes with Otsu's help. Takezo is then captured again by the priest after finding out that Otsu has been taken to Himeji Castle. He is tricked and locked in a room in the castle for three years. The end of the film shows Takezo being granted his samurai name 'Musashi Miyamoto.' He then leaves to search for enlightenment, leaving two messages for Otsu: "Soon I will be back" and "Forgive me."A 56-year-old clothing manufacturer  falls in love with 24-year-old Novak, much to the dismay of both families. Future Oscar winners Martin Balsam  and Lee Grant ([[Shampoo  also star in this film, which was mildly controversial in its day. It was originally a stage play starring Edward G. Robinson. Some of the stage cast were in the film.In 1848 New York, a young Frenchwoman, Madeline Minot , arrives, looking for expatriate Charles Thevenet . She is initially turned away at the door by his mistress and housekeeper, Lorna Bounty , but persists and presents Thevenet with a letter of introduction from his only grandson, Paul, a romantic revolutionary with whom Madeline is in love. Thevenet, a wealthy, old, dissipated rake, correctly guesses Madeline's purpose in visiting him; she has been sent by Paul to ask him for money to support the revolution in France. Lorna, assisted by hulking butler Martin  and cook Mrs. Flynn  are also after Thevenet's fortune, having waited for the old man to die for ten years. To that end, the trio let Thevenet drink as much as he wants, contrary to the instructions of Dr. Roland , and replace some prescribed medicine. Madeline has one ally, Dupin , an impecunious, heavy-drinking poet . A chance acquaintance, she turns to him when she suspects the medicine has been poisoned. They take it to a pharmacist, who finds it to be sugar water. Dupin becomes acquainted with Lorna and recognizes her as a former actress who achieved fame with Thevenet's backing. During her stay in Thevenet's townhouse, Madeline softens the old reprobate's heart. He summons his lawyer, Durand , and changes his will. Then he secretly puts arsenic in his drink, ready to end his life. However, he suffers a stroke that paralyzes him, leaving him only partial control of his face. He watches helplessly as Durand drinks the fatal brandy. The will is then snatched up by Thevenet's pet raven and hidden in the fireplace. Before the old man dies, he tries to pass along to Dupin the location of the will solely with his eyes. Lorna guesses that there is a new will and its contents. After the funeral, she and her accomplices search desperately for it without success. Dupin is more perceptive; from the clues, he finds and retrieves the document, though he has to fight Martin off to escape the house alive. When the will is read, it reveals that Paul does inherit the money; Lorna, Martin and Mrs. Flynn are left only the house. At the end of the film, Madeline goes looking for Dupin to thank him. Dupin's generous bartender Flaherty  tells her he has gone, leaving only a seemingly worthless IOU for his sizable bar bill. On one side is a draft of a verse about a woman named Annabel Lee, and on the other, the IOU's signature, which reveals Dupin's real name: Edgar Allan Poe.A middle-aged man's  conservative life is disturbed, when his sister  returns to Greece, after many years in Chicago. Her arrival breathes new air to the family, and some extreme ideas of how to get her shy nieces to marry.The Prestons are an apparently happy London household, made up of wife Amy , husband Jim  and teenage son Brian . Although the family appears happy, there is considerable tension, as Amy never gets organised enough to get dressed each day. Instead, she does the housework, cooks the meals, etc., in her dressing gown. Jim is having an affair with a co-worker, Georgie , who threatens to break it off unless Jim divorces his wife and leaves his family. He promises that he will do so, and demands a divorce from Amy. Amy is shocked and distraught, while Brian becomes angry with his father. Amy invites Jim and Georgie back to the Prestons' flat, to try to convince Georgie not to take her husband away. Amy gets her hair done and tries to organise a meal, paying for it all by pawning her engagement ring. However, she gets drunk and falls asleep on the bed, later ordering Jim and Georgie out of the flat. Jim leaves, but has second thoughts, returning to his wife and son, who cautiously accept him back.The film deals with the story of the daughter of a minor branch of a European royal house who is being considered as a wife for her cousin, the heir to the throne. Princess Alexandra  is the princess, her cousin the crown prince, Albert, is played by Alec Guinness, and her brothers' tutor, a commoner for whom she thinks she may feel more affection than she does for the prince, is played by Louis Jourdan. The princess's relatives{{spaced ndash}}played by Jessie Royce Landis, Estelle Winwood, and Brian Aherne{{spaced ndash}}are comically eccentric, and Agnes Moorehead, as the queen who shows up near the end to find out if the princess has made the grade, is crankily imperious. Leo G. Carroll plays their butler. Van Dyke Parks also appears in this movie. Princess Alexandra is urged by her mother to accept Albert so that their family may regain a throne that was taken from them by Napoleon. Princess Alexandra tries to gain Albert's attention; he is otherwise taken with sleeping late, shooting duck and playing football with Alexandra's two younger brothers. Alexandra's mother urges her to show interest in the tutor, Mr. Agi, to make Albert jealous and stimulate a proposal from him. Agi is already taken with Alexandra and when she invites him to the farewell ball for the crown prince he eagerly accepts. Later when they are dancing at the ball it appears that Albert is getting jealous but instead he is more interested in playing the bass in the orchestra. Later, Agi tells Alexandra how he feels about her. She tells him that it was all a ploy to get Albert to propose to her and she suspected he felt this way. She realizes that she has some feelings for him but he refuses her. Albert comes to find out about this situation and is a little taken aback. Albert and Agi trade insults. Agi then storms out and tries to leave the next morning. Alexandra, distraught over what happened, tries to leave with him, but he refuses her again. Albert's mother shows up and gets the entire story and is aghast. Albert gives his blessing to the pair and says that when he is king he will allow them back into the country. However, Agi ends up leaving the mansion without Alexandra. Albert tries to console Alexandra by telling her she is like a swan: on the water she looks serene, but on land she is more like a goose. Albert then offers Alexandra his arm and they walk back into the mansion together.During the Christmas holiday season. Greenwich Village witch Gillian Holroyd , a free spirit with a penchant for going barefoot, has been unlucky in love and restless in life. She admires from afar her neighbor, publisher Shep Henderson , who one day walks into her gallery of primitive art to use the telephone. When she learns he is about to marry an old college enemy of hers, Merle Kittridge , she takes revenge by casting a love spell on him while falling for him herself. She must eventually make a stark choice, as witches who fall in love lose their supernatural powers. Gillian's cat and familiar, Pyewacket, becomes agitated and leaves her when she decides in Shep's favor. Sidney Redlitch , the author of the best-selling book Magic in Mexico, arrives in Shep's office  after Gillian discovers Shep's interest in meeting him. Redlitch is researching a book on witches in New York, and acquires an "inside" collaborator when Gillian's warlock brother Nicky  volunteers his services in exchange for a portion of the proceeds. Gillian uses her magic to make Shep lose interest in Nicky and Redlitch's book and then confesses her identity as a witch to Shep. He becomes angry, believing that she enchanted him just to spite Merle, and the two quarrel. Gillian threatens to cast various spells on Merle , but finds that she has lost her powers because of her love for Shep. Meanwhile, he finds that he literally cannot leave Gillian, because of the spell. To escape, he turns to another witch, Bianca de Passe , who breaks the spell. Shep confronts Gillian and leaves her heartbroken. He then tries unsuccessfully to explain to Merle that Gillian is a witch. Months later, Shep returns and discovers that Gillian has lost her magic powers because of her love for him. The two are reconciled.While on vacation, sports reporter Mike Hagen  meets fashion designer Marilla Brown . The two instantly bond and quickly get married, only to realize they have little in common. Mike is a sports fan and poker enthusiast with working-class friends. Marilla designs clothes for a wide array of artistic personalities. Their friends clash memorably one Wednesday night when his Poker Club and her Drama Society both convene at Marilla's apartment. Marilla becomes suspicious of Mike after she finds a photograph of Lori Shannon , Mike's former girlfriend. Mike tries to hide his former relationship, but fails miserably. Complicating matters even further is Mike's continuing series of exposés of the activities of crooked boxing promoter Martin Daylor . Mike's life is in danger, but he hides that from his wife too. What results is a series of misunderstandings and mishaps.Tony Wendice is an ex-professional tennis player who lives in a London flat with his wealthy wife Margot. Tony retired after Margot complained about his busy schedule, and she began an affair with American crime-fiction writer Mark Halliday, which Tony secretly discovered. Motivated by resentment, jealousy, and greed, Tony devises a plan to have Margot murdered. When Mark visits England, Margot introduces him to Tony as a casual acquaintance. After sending the two lovers out for the evening, Tony makes an excuse to meet at the flat with petty criminal C.A. Swann, an old acquaintance from Cambridge. Tony has been following Swann in order to blackmail him into committing the murder. Tony tells Swann of Margot's affair, including a love letter from Mark which she once kept in her handbag. Six months ago, Tony stole the handbag and anonymously blackmailed her. After tricking Swann into leaving his fingerprints on the letter, Tony offers to pay him £1,000 to kill Margot. If he refuses, Tony will turn him in to the police as the blackmailer. When Swann agrees, Tony explains his plan. He will take Mark to a party, leaving Margot at home and hiding her latchkey under the carpet on the staircase outside the front door of the flat. Swann is to sneak into the flat after Margot goes to bed and hide behind the curtains in front of the French doors leading to the garden. When Tony telephones from the party at 11 p.m., Margot will go to the phone. Swann is to kill her from behind, open the French doors, and leave signs suggesting a burglary gone wrong, then exit through the front door, again hiding the key under the staircase carpet. The plan works until Tony phones the flat later than intended, as his watch has stopped. Swann, about to give up waiting, has already put the key back under the staircase carpet when the phone rings. He tries to strangle Margot with a scarf, but she defends herself with a pair of scissors, killing him. She then picks up the telephone receiver and pleads for help. Realizing the plan has gone wrong, Tony tells her not to do anything. At home, he calls the police, sends Margot to bed. Then he moves what he assumes is Margot's latchkey from Swann's pocket into her handbag, plants Mark's letter on Swann, and replaces Swann's scarf with one of Margot's stockings. He also persuades Margot to hide the fact that he told her not to call the police. The next day, Chief Inspector Hubbard questions the Wendices and Margot makes several conflicting statements. When Hubbard explains that Swann must have entered through the front door, Tony falsely claims to have seen Swann after Margot's handbag was stolen and suggests that Swann made a copy of her key. Hubbard does not believe that story because no key was found on Swann. Hubbard arrests Margot after concluding that she killed Swann for blackmailing her with Mark's letter when he came to collect. Margot is found guilty and sentenced to death for murder. On the day before her scheduled execution, Mark tries to persuade Tony to save her by telling the police that he hired Swann to kill her. Tony refuses, insisting the story is too unrealistic, just before Hubbard arrives. With Mark hiding in the bedroom, Hubbard asks Tony about money he has been spending lately, tricks him into revealing that his latchkey is in his raincoat, and asks him about an attaché case. Tony claims to have lost the case, but Mark notices it on the bed, full of cash. Realizing his story is true, Mark stops Hubbard from leaving and explains his theory. Hubbard claims to prefer Tony's story that Margot gathered the money to pay Swann before deciding to kill him, but after Mark leaves, Hubbard discreetly swaps his own raincoat with Tony's, and as soon as Tony has left, he uses Tony's key to re-enter the flat. He really does suspect Tony, having discovered that the key in Margot's handbag was Swann's. Mark returns after seeing Tony leave. Meanwhile, on Hubbard's orders, police officers release Margot. She tries to unlock the door with the key in her purse, then enters through the garden, proving she is unaware of the hidden key. Hubbard has the handbag returned to the police station, where Tony retrieves it after discovering that he has no key. When he is unable to unlock the front door with the key from the bag, he takes Margot's key from the staircase and opens the door, proving his guilt. With his escape routes blocked by Hubbard and another policeman, Tony makes himself a drink.Steve Novak, a boy from a small mill town, decides to go to a college in Virginia to play football. He becomes a star player as a freshman, but hears stories of teammates receiving money for their play. Steve falls for Melissa, the daughter of one of the school's rich benefactors. When he suffers injuries on the field, Steve realizes that a college education will mean more to his future than football will. He also tries to win Melissa's love, over her her father's strong objections.Ann Haven , an aging movie actress, receives an urgent wire demanding that she immediately return to Hollywood to star in a new film. She is not thrilled with the idea, but decides to go anyway. She plans to leave New York for Los Angeles by train, bringing along her bold young daughter, Barbara . Unfortunately, the train is full so they have no choice but to stow away in a sleeping compartment. The berth belongs to a shy and introverted biochemistry professor from Harvard, Ollie J. Thrumm ([[James Warren . He ends up boarding the train in Chicago. Romance and complications ensue — including havoc from Ann's agent Johnny Pizer .Strong-willed, widowed schoolteacher Anna Leonowens arrives in Bangkok from Wales with her young son Louis after being summoned to tutor the many children of King Mongkut. The two are introduced to the Kralahome, King Mongkut's confidante and Siam's Prime Minister. His severe countenance makes Louis apprehensive, but Anna refuses to be intimidated and convinces him to disguise his fear . The Kralahome explains he will has come to escort them to the Royal Palace where they will live - a violation of Anna's contract, which calls for them to live in a separate house outside the walls of the Palace. Despite her threat to return to Singapore, Anna reluctantly disembarks with Louis and the Kralahome. Once inside the Royal Palace, Anna demands to see King Mongkut and is allowed by the Krahalome to enter the Throne Room. A pleased Mongkut ignores her objections as he introduces her to his numerous wives - which include head wife Lady Thiang and a graceful young girl from Burma named Tuptim. King Mongkut later presents the fifteen children she will tutor, aside from the other sixty-seven - among them his eldest son and heir Prince Chulalongkorn . Anna eventually agrees to stay and tutor the King's children, prompting formality to break down. Later that night, Lady Thiang and the other wives assist Anna in unpacking while also interested in how the British dress and act. When an old photograph of her late husband Tom is discovered, the other wives start to deride the unhappy Tuptim because she is in love with another man named Lun Tha, the same man who brought her to Siam. This causes Anna to reminisces about her life with Tom and give her blessing to other young girls who are like she once was . Anna refuses to give up on the house and teaches the children about the virtues of home life to King Mongkut's irritation. The King contemplates how he craves truth and wonders why the world has become so complicated with different cultures saying different things. . Meanwhile, Anna shows the children a modern map - saying that England is even smaller than Siam. Anna starts to form a relationship with the children as getting to know people is her favorite thing to teach ("[[Getting to Know You . The lesson, however, creates disorder when the children refuse to believe in snow. The King eventually enters a chaotic schoolroom, ordering his pupils to believe Anna. Upon noticing Tuptim has a copy of the novel Uncle Tom's Cabin, he engages in a slightly heated conversation with Anna about slavery - an institution embraced by all his people. That night, Anna is summoned to the King's private chambers where he says that after reading the Bible, he believes that the world was not created in six days, but after many centuries. The King disregards her explanation and orders her to take a letter to President Abraham Lincoln, in which he will send male elephants to America to help with the Civil War. He then forces her to sit on the floor due to an ancient custom that no one's head should be higher than his. She then continues to write the letter, but is left to finish the letter herself when she tries to explain that the elephants will not last long if only male elephants are sent. Anna goes outside, only to come across Lun Tha and learn that he has been meeting Tuptim in secret. He asks her to arrange a rendezvous and she refuses out of fear but eventually relents after remembering her past with her Tom. The lovers meet under the cover of darkness and Lun Tha promises he will one day return to Siam and they will escape together . The next day, King Mongkut becomes troubled by reports of English imperialism and bursts into the schoolroom after hearing Anna's pupils persist in singing "Home Sweet Home." Anna stands her ground, threatening to leave Siam despite pleas from the children. King Mongkut asserts that Anna is his servant only to see her repudiate the term and leave the room. King Mongkut then dismisses school and contemplates his next action. Lady Thiang visits Anna later that night and explains Mongkut is apprehensive over rumors that the British regard him as a barbaric leader, intending to turn Siam into a protectorate. Anna is shocked by the accusations but is reluctant to give him advice after their argument. Lady Thiang convinces her that the King is deserving of support and convinces Anna to go to the King . Anna learns the King is also anxious for reconciliation and learns that the British are sending an envoy to evaluate the situation in Bangkok. Upon learning that the envoy consists of Ambassador John Hay and her old lover Sir Edward Ramsay, Anna persuades the King to receive them in European style by hosting a banquet with European food and music - after which it is announced that the envoy is arriving in one week. The King assembles his family for a Buddhist prayer for the success of the venture and promises to give Anna a house of her own. On the night of the banquet, Anna has Lady Thiang and the other wives wear lavish European-style gowns only to discover in horror they are not wearing undergarments. She entreats the women to keep their backs to the wall as Ambassador Hay enters the room. But the ladies flee the room in horror at the sight of the Ambassador's monocle, coming to the conclusion that he has the head of a goat. Ambassador Hay is diplomatic about the incident and follows the King into the Dining Room as Edward reminisces with Anna about old times in an attempt to bring her back to British society. The King however walks in on them dancing and irritably reminds them that dancing is for after dinner. After impressing the guests with his intellectual observations, the King presents Tuptim's version of Uncle Tom's Cabin - which is presented as a traditional Siamese ballet. However, the King and the Kralahome are not impressed as the play involves the issue of slavery and shows the slaveholding King dead after drowning in the river. By the time the audience calls for the play's author, Tuptim has left the room to meet with Lun Tha. After the guests have departed, Anna talks with the King and is presented with one of his rings in appreciation of her efforts. He then explains he is not pleased with Tuptim and reveals she is missing. Anna however parries his inquiry by explaining she is unhappy because she is just another woman in his eyes. The King retorts that men are entitled to a plentitude of wives although women must remain faithful, explaining in a poem that men are "like honeybees" gathering honey from "blossoms." Anna explains the reality of one man loving only one woman and recalls her first dance before teaching the King how to dance the polka . But the moment is shattered when the Kralahome bursts into the room with news that Tuptim has been captured. For her dishonor, the King prepares to whip her despite Anna's plea that he is a barbarian with no heart. The King then crumples and leaves the room as Anna tells the Kralahome she will leave Siam on the next boat to Singapore and returns the ring. Tuptim meanwhile is led away in tears when she learns that Lun Tha is dead, his body discovered floating in the river On the night of her departure, Anna is prepared to leave the Royal Palace with Louis when Lady Thiang says that the King is dying. He refused to eat or sleep, isolating himself from everyone since the night of the banquet. Lady Thiang gives Anna a letter from the King that states his deep gratitude and respect for her. This prompts her to go to his bedside in tears moments before their ship departs for Singapore. The King gives Anna his ring, insisting that she wear it as she has always spoken the truth to him, persuading her and Louis to stay. King Mongkut then passes his title to Prince Chulalongkorn, who then issues a proclamation that brings an end to slavery and state that all subjects will no longer bow down to him. Satisfied that he is leaving his kingdom in capable hands, the King quietly dies with only Anna and the Kralahome noticing.Elwood P. Dowd  is a middle-aged, amiable  individual whose best friend is an invisible 6' 3.5" tall rabbit named Harvey. As described by Dowd, Harvey is a pooka, a benign but mischievous creature from Celtic mythology who is especially fond of social outcasts . Elwood has driven his sister and niece  to distraction by introducing everyone he meets to his friend, Harvey. His family seems to be unsure whether Dowd's obsession with Harvey is a product of his  propensity to drink or perhaps mental illness. Elwood spends most of his time in the local bar, and throughout the film invites new acquaintances to join him for a drink . Interestingly, the barman and all regulars accept the existence of Harvey, and the barman asks how they both are and unflinchingly accepts an order from Elwood for two Martinis.  His sister, Veta Louise Simmons , tries to have Elwood committed to a sanatorium. In exasperation, she admits to the attending psychiatrist Dr. Lyman Sanderson  that, after so many years of putting up with the invisible rabbit, she sees Harvey every once in a while. This causes Dr. Sanderson to let Elwood out and lock Veta up. After sorting out the mistake, Dr. Chumley, head of the sanatorium  decides that to save the reputation of the sanatorium he must bring Elwood back. At one point, when her daughter asks how someone possibly could imagine a rabbit, Veta says to her "Myrtle Mae, you have a lot to learn and I hope you never learn it". When tracked down, Elwood goes through several ordeals, although he remains largely oblivious to the plans put in place for him by Dr. Chumley, Judge Gaffney  and Veta Louise. In a poignant scene where Dr. Sanderson and his nurse Miss Kelly  follow Elwood into an alley at the back of his and Harvey's favorite bar, Charlie's, Elwood tells the incredible story of how he came to meet Harvey, and explains the way in which people react when they meet them. In a later scene, he gives Dr. Chumley an insight into his philosophy of life: {{Quote}} Elwood also explains that Harvey has the power to stop time: "Did I tell you he could stop clocks? Well, you've heard the expression 'His face would stop a clock'? Well, Harvey can look at your clock and stop it. And you can go anywhere you like — with anyone you like — and stay as long as you like. And when you get back, not one minute will have ticked by. ... You see, science has overcome time and space. Well, Harvey has overcome not only time and space — but any objections." In the final scene of the film, Elwood  arrives back at the hospital. By this point, Dr. Chumley is not only convinced of Harvey's existence, but has begun spending time with him on his own, with a mixture of admiration and fear. Dr. Sanderson convinces Elwood to come into his office where he will receive a serum called Formula 977 that will stop Dowd from "seeing the rabbit". As they are preparing for the injection, Elwood's sister is told by their cab driver about all the other people he has driven to the sanatorium to receive the same medicine, warning her that Elwood will become "just a normal human being. And you know what stinkers they are." Upset by the very thought of this, Veta halts the procedure by banging on the examining room door, at which point Elwood comforts her and explains her tears to others with, "Veta's all tired out, she's done a lot today".  As Elwood is leaving, Dr Chumley asks Elwood for Harvey's help, and Elwood, being the obliging fellow he is, makes no objection. Dr Chumley, arm in arm with an invisible companion, asks 'Have you ever been to Akron?'. This implied that Harvey will now use his power to stop clocks and mystically transport Dr Chumley to a personal paradise, in Akron, Ohio. After the gates to 'Chumley's Rest' are closed, and Elwood is leaving, he stops, turns around and has a conversation with an invisible Harvey, who is already back from his trip to Akron and reaffirms their friendship. Elwood and his invisible companion saunter off towards the bus stop, following Veta and Myrtle Mae, towards the planned last stop of Charlie's Bar and another drink.Conservative lawyer Adam Calhorn Shaw  hopes to be elected to office, like his father, and his father's father. He is engaged to a sophistocated society lady, Beth Hallson . Arriving at a nursery to complain about the peach trees he had previously purchased, Adam meets the energetic and eccentric Athena Mulvain , the oldest of seven sisters in a family of anti-smoking, vegetarian, teetotallers who follow astrology and numerology. Athena offers to give him advice on how to mulch the peach trees, however, Adam is uneasy, and leaves. Later, at a party, Athena arrives, mulches Adam's peach trees, kisses him, and announces her intention to marry him. She also decides, after a numerological calculation, that Adam's friend Johnny Nyle  would be perfect for her sister, Minerva  has been training for the Mr. Universe competition, Ed Perkins and Bill Nichols. Despite the bizarre ways of the family, and although Adam initially tries to resist Athena, he eventually succumbs to her charms, and breaks up with Beth. Just when all is looking rosy, Grandma foresees difficult times ahead. Athena's sisters advise Athena to break up with Adam, however Athena chooses to push ahead with the relationship, knowing that "love can change the stars". The sisters visit Adam's house while he is out and perform a makeover, removing rugs and screens and installing large urns and fresh flowers. Adam's influential family friend, Mr. Grenville, Adam's law firm partner, Mr. Griswalde, and Adam's campaign manager for election to the United States Congress, Mr. Tremaine, phone Adam's house and reach Athena on the phone. Curious, they visit Adam's house only to find Grandma there in place of the girls. Adam invites Athena to a formal reception at Mr. Grenville's home. Athena at first charms the party with her pleasant nature and an off-the-cuff rendition of an aria from a Donizetti Opera. However she loses her temper when Beth presents Athena with a buffet dinner where all of the vegetables are stuffed with meat. More difficulties arise when Adam humiliates Ed Perkins and Grandpa on television at the "Mr. Universe" final. Grandpa had hoped that Ed would marry Athena to produce perfect children. Adam verbally attacks Grandpa over the hypocrisy of many of his beliefs. Ed threatens Adam by putting him in a hold that Adam gets out of by throwing Ed in a jiu jitsu throw with both events appearing on nationwide television. Adam is told by his minders that his political career is over by his embarrassing the belief system of Athena's people that would alienate voters with those sympathies whilst those opposed to their beliefs would associate Adam with holding their beliefs by merely being with them. Despite requisite further conflict, harmony is restored and all of the main players gather around for a Mulvain-style feast.Insurance investigator Joe Peters  and his partner Harry Miller  solve a case and prepare to fly home. Joe meets Diane  at an airport. She pretends to be his wife without his knowledge in order to get a large discount on the airfare. They wind up sharing a hotel room after a storm forces an unscheduled stop. Joe is attracted to Diane, despite his dislike for "chiseler"s. She makes it quite clear she loves the finer things in life, which "Honest Joe"  cannot possibly afford on his small salary of $350 a month, so they part when they reach Los Angeles. By coincidence, when Joe and Harry are assigned to check out Kendall Webb , the prime suspect in a fur robbery, Joe runs into Diane, who is now Webb's girlfriend. Their mutual attraction flares up, and Joe sets up a robbery to Webb, using his inside knowledge of a $1,250,000 cash shipment, to finance a dream life with Diane. Ironically, Diane decides that her love for Joe is greater than her love of money. When she tells Joe she wants to get married, he tries to back out of his deal with Webb. However, Webb convinces him that Diane might not feel the same after a few months living on his paltry pay. The robbery coincides with Joe and Diane's honeymoon, giving him an alibi. Eventually, Joe confesses to Diane what he has done. The railway mail car robbery is successful, but a railroad employee is injured and later dies. Things go downhill from there. One of the robbers is identified and arrested. Desperate, Joe arranges to meet Webb on a desolate stretch of highway by telling him he has a plan to get them out of their mess. However, after a struggle, he knocks Webb out and stages a car accident in which Webb is killed and his share of the money partially burned. Harry figures out that his partner is involved and pleads with him to turn himself in. Instead, Joe tries to flee to Mexico with Diane, but is tracked down and shot. He dies in Diane's arms.It starts for a classical theme of his brother/sister? which he cannot get married unless he first restore his brother. In this, the downfall of a great person, loved by a younger lady which he absolutely to torn as an extreme between these messages about the marriage. In order to hide her real age of the sister which she present as a 39 year old lady . Later on, these different tragic comedy situations in which planned to failed. The movie returned again by the same director in 1968 with Lambros Konstantaras in O Romios ehi filotimoA man who suspects his wife is having an affair with his daughter's fiance places the two in dangerous situations in order to satisfy his voyeuristic curiosity.Moe and Larry are at a sanatorium where Shemp is being treating for suffering from hallucinations. Shemp says he is indeed cured, and insists on saying farewell to his new fiancée, beautiful nurse Nora . When Nora calls out to Shemp, she appears, much to the scare of Moe and Larry: poor Nora is a homely, toothless thing who seems to have won Shemp's heart. It then becomes clear that Shemp is far from cured, and needs additional therapy. While Shemp is home, the boys receive a visit from Dr. Gesundheit . The blind-as-a-bat doctor tries his best to cure Shemp, but runs into difficulty when the stubborn stooge refuses to swallow a sleeping pill. Later, Shemp hallucinates an extra set of hands while enduring his piano lesson. On the verge of a nervous breakdown, Shemp insists on seeing Nora, with hopes of finally getting married.  On the way to Nora's apartment, the Stooges become wedged in a phone booth with a stranger , leading to a fist and pie fight. When the trio arrive at Nora's apartment, they find she is waiting for her father—who happens to be the individual the Stooges brawled with in the phone booth.The story begins in a courtroom where an 18-year-old Mexican boy from a New York city slum, is on trial for allegedly stabbing his father to death. Final closing arguments are presented, and the judge then instructs the jury to decide whether the boy is guilty of murder. The judge further informs them that a guilty verdict will be accompanied by a mandatory death sentence.<ref name12 Angry Men  - Memorable quotes|urlqt0201858|work29 August 2012}} The twelve-man jury retires to a private room, where they spend a short while getting acquainted before they begin deliberating. It is immediately apparent that the jurors have already decided that the boy is guilty, and that they plan to return their verdict quickly, without taking time for discussion – with the sole exception of Juror 8 . He is the only "not guilty" vote in a preliminary tally. He explains that there is too much at stake for him to go along with the verdict without at least talking about it first. His vote annoys the other jurors, especially Juror 7 , who has tickets to a baseball game that evening; and Juror 10 , who believes that everyone from slum backgrounds is evil. The rest of the film's focus is the jury's difficulty in reaching a unanimous verdict. While several of the jurors harbor personal prejudices, Juror 8 maintains that the evidence presented in the case is circumstantial, and that the boy deserves a fair deliberation. He calls into question the accuracy and reliability of the only two witnesses to the murder, the "rarity" of the murder weapon , and the overall questionable circumstances . He further argues that he cannot in good conscience vote "guilty" when he feels there is reasonable doubt of the boy's guilt. Having argued several points and gotten no favorable response from the others, Juror 8 reluctantly agrees that all he seems to be accomplishing is hanging the jury. He takes a bold gamble: he requests another vote, this time by secret ballot. He proposes that he will abstain from voting, and if the other eleven jurors are still unanimous in a guilty vote, then he will acquiesce to their decision. The secret ballot is held, and a new "not guilty" vote appears. This earns intense criticism from Juror 3 , who blatantly accuses Juror 5  – who had grown up in a slum – of switching only because he's sympathetic toward slum children. However, Juror 9 ([[Joseph Sweeney  reveals that he himself changed his vote, feeling that Juror 8's points deserve further discussion. Juror 8 presents a convincing argument that one of the witnesses, an elderly man, who claimed to have heard the boy yell "I'm going to kill you" shortly before the murder took place, could not have heard the voices as clearly as he had testified, as well as stating that "I'm going to kill you," is often said by people who do not mean it literally. Juror 5 changes his vote to "not guilty." Soon afterward, Juror 11  questions whether the defendant would have reasonably fled the scene and come back three hours later to retrieve the knife, which had been left in his father's chest, then also changes his vote. Juror 7 then mentions the man's second claim: upon hearing the murder, he had gone to the door of his apartment and seen the defendant running out of the building from his front door in 15 seconds. Jurors 5, 6, and 8 question whether this is true, as the witness in question had had a stroke, limiting his ability to walk. Upon the end of an experiment, the jury finds that the witness wouldn't have made it to the door in enough time to actually see the killer running out. Juror 8 concludes that, judging from what he heard earlier, the witness must have merely assumed it was the defendant running. Juror 3, growing more irritated throughout the process, explodes in a rant: "He's got to burn! He's slipping through our fingers!" Juror 8 takes him to task, calling him a "self-appointed public avenger" and a sadist, saying he wants the defendant to die purely for personal reasons, not the facts. Juror 3 shouts "I'll kill him!" and starts lunging at 8, but is restrained by two others. 8 calmly retorts, "You don't really mean you'll kill me, do you?", proving the point he mentioned earlier.{{cite web}} The next jurors to change their votes are Jurors 12  and 1 , making the vote 9–3 and leaving only three dissenters: Jurors 3, 4, and 10. Outraged at how the proceedings have gone, Juror 10 proceeds to go into a rage on why people from the slums cannot be trusted, of how they are little better than animals who gleefully kill each other off for fun. His speech offends Juror 5, who turns his back to him, and one by one the rest of the jurors start turning away from him. Confused and disturbed by this reaction to his diatribe, Juror 10 continues in a steadily fading voice and manner, concluding with the entreaty, "Listen to me. Listen..." Juror 4, the only man still facing him, tersely responds, "I have. Now sit down and don't open your mouth again." Juror 8 speaks quietly about the evils of prejudice, and as he does, the other jurors slowly resume their seats. When those remaining in favor of a guilty vote are pressed as to why they still maintain that there is no reasonable doubt, Juror 4 states his belief that despite all the other evidence that has been called into question, the fact remains that the woman who saw the murder from her bedroom window across the street  still stands as solid evidence. After he points this out, Juror 12 changes his vote back to "guilty", making the vote 8–4 again. Then Juror 9, after seeing Juror 4 rub his nose , realizes that, like Juror 4, the woman who allegedly saw the murder had impressions in the sides of her nose, indicating that she wore glasses, but out of vanity did not wear them in court; Juror 8 cannily asks Juror 4 if he wears his eyeglasses to sleep, and 4 admits he doesn't – no one does.{{cite web}}Grayson's traveling carnival comes to Munich with acts that include high-dive artist Frank Collini and silent strongman Groppo. A local girl named Willi picks the pocket of Joe, who works for the carny, but she ends up being offered a job. Joe makes romantic advances to Willi, who tries to resist him but can't. Collini asks if she would like to become a part of his act, which involves diving into a flaming tank of water from a great height. He also proposes marriage on Willi's first night as part of the show. Magazine photographer Bill comes to take their picture as The Great Collinis' fame grows. Collini gives a beating to Joe after catching him with Willi, whereupon he plunges to his death after a rung on his high-dive ladder breaks. Willi inherits $5,000. Joe spends the night with her, but next morning is gone, as is her money. She eventually gets Joe to confess that he sawed Collini's rung in two, deliberately causing his death. As they quarrel, strongman Groppo comes to Willi's rescue, kills Joe and is led away by the police.Jan Morrow  is a successful, content, self-reliant interior decorator who lives in New York City. She lives alone and claims to be quite happy, when questioned on that subject by her drunken housekeeper, Alma . Due to the state of the telephone company's development, she has to use a party line, which she shares with Brad Allen , a talented, creative Broadway composer and playboy. Jan and Brad, who have never met, develop a feud over the use of the party line, as Brad is constantly using the phone to chat with one young woman after another, singing to each of them an "original" love song supposedly written just for her, though he only changes the name or language he sings in. Jan and Brad bicker over the party line, with Brad suggesting that the single Jan is jealous of his popularity. One of Jan's clients is millionaire Jonathan Forbes , who repeatedly throws himself at her to no avail. Unknown to Jan, Jonathan is Brad's old college buddy and current Broadway benefactor. One evening in a nightclub, Brad finally sees Jan dancing. Attracted to her, he fakes a Texan accent and invents a new persona: Rex Stetson, wealthy Texas rancher. He succeeds in wooing Jan, and the pair begin seeing each other regularly. Jan cannot resist bragging about new beau on the phone to Brad Allen, while Brad teases Jan by showing an interest in traditionally effeminate things thereby stereotypically implying "Rex's" homosexuality.When Jonathan finds out what Brad has done, he forces Brad to leave New York City and go to Jonathan's cabin in Connecticut to complete his new songs. Brad uses the opportunity to secretly ask Jan to go away with him, and she does. Once there, romance is in the air until Jan stumbles upon a copy of Rex's sheet music. She plunks the melody on the nearby piano and recognizes Brad's song. She confronts Brad angrily and ignores his attempts at explanation, leaving with Jonathan who has arrived just in time to expose Rex as Brad and who takes her back to New York City. Once Brad returns to New York, Jonathan is pleased to learn that the mighty oak of a playboy has finally fallen in love, while conversely Jan will have nothing to do with him for deceiving her. Not ready to give up, Brad turns to Jan's maid, Alma, for advice, who suggests he hire Jan to decorate his apartment so they will be forced to collaborate. Jan only concedes so that her employer will not lose the account. Little does he know her employer is also in on the scheme. Still quite angry however, Jan completely redoes Brad's apartment in the most gaudy, ghastly, hideous decor she can muster. Horrified by what he finds, Brad angrily storms into Jan's apartment and carries her in her pajamas through the street back to his apartment, where he asks her how it feels to return to the scene of the crime. In his frustration he tells her of all the changes he's made to end his bachelor lifestyle because he thought he was getting married. Her face lights up from his admission but he's so angry he attempts to leave. She quickly reaches for one of the tacky remote control switches he installed to accommodate his "purposes" which immediately locks the door. She flips the second switch and the player piano pounds out a honky-tonk version of Brad's standard love song. He turns around in defeat, their eyes meet, each smiles, and they lovingly embrace. At the end of the film, Brad goes to tell Jonathan that he is going to be a father. During the end credits, 4 pillows appear on the screen-pink, blue, pink, and blue-signifying the children Brad and Jan have together.Vincent van Gogh's obsessive devotion to his art engulfs, consumes, and finally destroys him. He fails at a religious career and then as a social activist in a coal mining town, returns home to his father's house where he is rejected by a woman he obsessively loves, takes up with a prostitute who leaves because he is too poor, and discovers painting, which he pursues while agonizing that his vision exceeds his ability to execute. His brother, Theo van Gogh, provides financial and moral support, while Vincent lives off and on with the critical Paul Gauguin. Vincent begins experiencing hallucinations and seizures and voluntarily commits himself to a mental institution. He signs himself out, and with Theo's help, returns to a rural area to paint, where he ultimately shoots himself in despair of never being able to put what he sees on canvas.Johnny  is living with Louis Galt , her rich English lover. Galt has promised Johnny that once he manages to divorce his present wife, the two will marry. However, as time passes Galt does not appear to be making any efforts in keeping his promsie. Johnny eventually becomes enamored of Pierre Clemont , a poor French artist. Before, Johnny can truly break it off with Galt, he is found dead. She and Pierre are immediately accused of being the murderers. The two run away but are being closely followed by the actual murderer.Florence Carala  and Julien Tavernier  are illicit lovers who plan to kill Florence's husband, Simon Carala , a wealthy industrialist who is also Julien's boss. Julien, an ex-Foreign Legion parachutist officer veteran of Indochina and Algeria, climbs up the office block on a rope, shoots Carala in his office without being seen, and arranges the room to make it look like a suicide. However, upon going to his car, Julien realizes he left the rope dangling outside the building. Leaving his expensive car unlocked and with the keys in the ignition, he goes to remove the evidence, but, after disposing of the rope, becomes trapped in the elevator as the building closes down for the weekend. Julien's car is stolen by a young couple, small-time crook Louis  and flower-seller Veronique . Florence, who is waiting for Julien at a cafe, sees the car go by and Veronique leaning out of the window. She assumes that Julien has run off with Veronique, and wanders the Paris streets despondently all night. Louis and Veronique spend the night in a motel, checking in under the name "Mr. and Mrs. Julien Tavernier," and make the acquaintance of Horst Bencker  and his wife Frieda , a German tourist couple. Frieda takes pictures of Louis and her husband with Julien's miniature camera. After the Benckers go to bed, Louis attempts to steal their luxury car. Bencker catches Louis and threatens him with a "gun" . Louis shoots and kills the couple with Julien's handgun. Louis and Veronique return to Paris and hide out in Veronique's flat. Convinced that their crime will be discovered and they will go to jail, Veronique persuades Louis to join her in a suicide pact. They take an overdose of pills and pass out. The Benckers' bodies are discovered, along with Julien's car, handgun, and raincoat; Julien therefore becomes the prime suspect in their deaths, and his picture is printed in the morning newspapers. The police, seeking Julien, arrive at the office building. Julien is finally able to escape from the elevator without being seen, but, in a cafe, is quickly recognized and arrested. Meanwhile, the police discover Carala's body in his office, but do not suspect foul play - they believe that it was a suicide. Julien is charged with killing the Benckers, and the police refuse to believe his alibi of being stuck in an elevator. Florence believes Julien's story, and goes to seek out Veronique. Her suicide attempt failed; she and Louis are both alive, but drowsy. Florence confronts the young couple and accuses them of killing the Benckers. Louis still believes that there is no evidence connecting him with the crime, then remembers Julien's camera which contains photographs of him and Bencker. He left the camera at the motel, and drives back there in the hopes of recovering the camera before anyone can develop the pictures. Florence pursues him, determined not to let him get away. At the motel, the photographs have been developed. Because of the picture of Louis and Bencker, Louis will indeed be charged with murdering the German tourists. However, the camera also contained photographs of Julien and Florence, embracing and smiling. The police realize that Julien and Florence were lovers, and that they plotted to kill Florence's husband. Both of them will go on trial for Mr. Carala's death.Wealthy Corby Lane  visits the small American hamlet of Progress, Arkansas, whose residents had paid for a critical medical operation for her when she was a child. She decides to express her gratitude by giving them money anonymously. The headstrong woman clashes with the local doctor, Robert Sellers , who foresees the resulting chaos.Helen Allistair,  is a boarding-house landlady who takes in women about to bear illegitimate children. Under cover of this she is a baby-farmer. She tries to blackmail her boarders. But she is unsuccessful in the case of Vivianne Bruce, the mistress of a condemned murderer.On Moonlight Bay centers on the character Marjorie Winfield, a tomboy played by Doris Day. When the Winfield family moves into a new house in a small town in Indiana, the daughter, Marjorie begins a romance with the boy next door, William Sherman, played by Gordon MacRae. Marjorie has to learn how to dance and behave like a proper young lady. Unfortunately Mr. Winfield doesn't approve of William and some of his unconventional ideas about marriage and money, which causes the course of true love to run less smoothly than could be desired. Everything is resolved in time for a happy ending.Ray and Polly Cutler  on a delayed honeymoon at Niagara Falls, find their reserved cabin occupied by George and Rose Loomis . They politely accept another, less desirable cabin, and the two couples become acquainted. George and Rose have a troubled marriage. She is younger and very attractive. He is jealous, depressed and irritable. It is implied that he may have recently been discharged from an Army mental hospital. While touring the falls the following day, Polly sees Rose passionately kissing a man, Patrick. That evening the Cutlers witness George's rage. Rose joins an impromptu party and George storms out and breaks a record playing a tune that he suspects has a secret meaning for Rose. What George does not know is that Rose is planning his murder. The next day she lures him into following her to the dark tourist tunnel underneath the Falls. There Patrick has planned to kill him. Patrick is to request a nearby carillon to play a special song to let Rose know that George is dead. By chance, the tune is played and Rose concludes George is murdered. In fact, George has killed Patrick, thrown his body into the falls and collected Patrick's shoes at the exit instead of his own. This leads the police to believe that George is the victim. The body is retrieved and the police bring Rose to identify George's body. When the cover is lifted from the face and she sees Patrick, she collapses and is admitted to a hospital. The motel manager moves the Cutlers to the Loomises' cabin. George comes to kill Rose in revenge but finds Polly instead. She wakes and sees him before he runs away. She tells the police, who launch a dragnet. During the Cutlers' second visit to the Falls, George finds Polly alone. Trying to escape, she slips and he saves her from falling into the Falls. He explains that he killed Patrick in self-defense and asks, "Let me stay dead." Polly leaves without answering. A frightened Rose leaves the hospital intending to return to the U.S. Finding George waiting for her, she tries to hide in the carillon. George catches her and strangles her beneath the bells, which remain silent. Remorsefully he says, "I loved you, Rose. You know that." The Cutlers go fishing with friends in a launch on a section of the Niagara River above the Falls. When the launch is moored to allow the party to go shopping, George steals the boat with Polly on board. The police are notified and set out in pursuit. The boat runs out of gas and drifts toward the Falls. Near the edge, George manages to place Polly on a rock before going over the Falls to his death. Polly is rescued by helicopter.A television announcer reports sightings of a red fireball around the world. Facetiously, he calculates its path will lead it to California. Nancy Archer , a wealthy but highly troubled woman, is speeding along in her car one night when a glowing white ball settles on the deserted highway in front of her, causing her to veer off the road. When she gets out to investigate, a giant alien exits the object and reaches for her. Terrified, she escapes and runs back to town, but nobody believes her story due her known drinking problem and recent stay in a sanitarium. Her philandering husband, Harry ([[William Hudson , is more interested in his latest girlfriend, Honey Parker , but he pretends to be the good husband in hopes that Nancy will "snap" and return to the "booby hatch", leaving him in control of her $50 million. Nancy makes him search the desert with her for the "flying satellite". Eventually, they find it. When the alien emerges, Harry fires his pistol at it, but when it has no effect, flees, leaving Nancy behind. Nancy is later found on the roof of her pool house, but she is delirious and must be sedated by her family physician, Dr. Cushing. Harry, egged on by Honey, attempts to give Nancy a lethal injection of her medicine, but when he sneaks up to her room, he finds that she has grown into a giant. Cushing and Dr. Von Loeb, a specialist he has called in, are at a loss how to treat their patient; they keep her in a coma with morphine and restrain her with chains while waiting for the authorities. The sheriff and Jess , Nancy's faithful butler, track enormous footprints leading away from the estate to the open alien sphere. Inside, they find Nancy's diamond  and others, each in a clear orb. They speculate that the jewels are being used as fuel. The giant appears and attacks them, wrecking their car before flying away in the sphere. Meanwhile, Nancy awakens and breaks free of her restraints. Determined to avenge herself on her unfaithful husband, she stomps off to town. When she rips the roof off the bar to get at Harry, she spots Honey. She drops a ceiling beam on her rival, killing her. Harry panics and begins shooting, but she picks him up and walks away. Gunshots have no apparent effect on her. The sheriff fires a riot gun, which causes a nearby power line transformer to blow up, killing her. The doctors find Harry lying dead in her hand.On a dark night, Jôji  an ex-boxer , meets Saeko , a club singer on the verge of suicide. . They live and work together at a restaurant where they begin to fall in love, struggling to escape from their dark pasts. Jôji deals with his failure as a boxer, shamed of having been barred from the ring. Saeko hopes to hide from gangsters who have forced her to work at their cabaret. She seeks his help as she is trying to run away from her gangster boss who is forcing her to continue working even though she no longer has a talented voice due to illnesses.http://www.criterion.com/films/2955-i-am-waitinghttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt1248984/synopsis They both find their source of support in their sole dreams: he wishes to Brazil to join his brother on a ranch, and she dreams of finding love. During the quest for his brother, Jôji discovers the horrible truth of the situation. His brother never made it to Brazil. Instead, a group of gangsters took him as a prisoner. Continuously pushed away by gangsters, they learn that dreams are easily crushed.http://www.criterion.com/films/2955-i-am-waitinghttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt1248984/synopsisGeorge Eastman , the poor nephew of rich industrialist Charles Eastman , and no relation to the real-life George Eastman, takes a job in his uncle's factory. Despite George's family relationship to the owner, the rich Eastman family treats him as an outsider and gives him the humblest job available in the factory and no entry into their exclusive social circle. George, uncomplaining, hopes to impress his uncle—whom he addresses as "Mr. Eastman"—with his hard work and earn his way up. While working in the factory, George starts dating fellow factory worker Alice Tripp , in defiance of the workplace rules. Alice is a poor and inexperienced girl who is dazzled by George and slow to believe that his Eastman name brings him no advantages. While stepping out with Al, George meets "society girl" Angela Vickers, played by Elizabeth Taylor, and they quickly fall in love. Being Angela's escort thrusts George into the intoxicating and carefree lifestyle of high society that his rich Eastman kin had denied him. When Alice announces that she is pregnant and makes it clear that she expects George to marry her, he puts her off, spending more and more of his time with Angela and his new well-heeled friends. An attempt to procure an abortion for Alice fails, and she renews her insistence on marriage. George is invited to join Angela at the Vickers's holiday lake house and excuses himself to Alice, saying that the visit will advance his career and accrue to the benefit of the coming child. George and Angela spend time at secluded Loon Lake, and after hearing a story of a couple's supposed drowning there, with the man's body never being found, George hatches a plan to rid himself of Alice so that he can marry Angela. Meanwhile, Alice finds a picture in the newspaper of George, Angela, and their friends, and realizing that George lied to her about being forced to go to the lake, she meets George in the nearby town and threatens to expose everything to his society friends if he doesn't marry her. They quickly drive to City Hall to elope but they find it closed for Labor Day, and George suggests spending the day at the nearby lake; Alice unsuspectingly agrees. When they get to the lake, George acts visibly nervous when he rents a boat from a man who seems to deduce that George gave him a false name; the man's suspicions are aroused more when George asks him whether any other boaters are on the lake . While they are out on the lake, Alice confesses her dreams about their happy future together with their child. As George apparently takes pity on her and, judging from his attitude, decides not to carry out his murderous plan, Alice tries to stand up in the boat, causing it to capsize, and Alice drowns. George escapes, swims to shore, and eventually drives back up to the Vickers's lodge, where he tries to relax but is increasingly tense. He says nothing to anyone about having been on the lake or about what happened there. Meanwhile, Alice's body is discovered and her death is treated as a murder investigation almost from the first moment, while an abundant amount of evidence and witness reports stack up against George. Just as Angela's father approves Angela's marriage to him, George is arrested and charged with Alice's murder. Though the audience knows that the planned murder in fact turned into an accidental drowning, George's furtive actions before and after Alice's death condemn him. His denials are futile, and he is found guilty of murder and sentenced to death in the electric chair. Near the end, he confesses in his cell that he deserves to die because he could have saved Alice, but chose not to.Susie is a small blue coupe on display in a dealer showroom who is bought by a well-to-do man who is taken with her. Thrust into high-society, she finds herself surrounded by much larger, more luxurious cars but eventually makes do. She is pampered, but time takes its toll on her, mechanically and cosmetically; eventually, her owner trades her in. A second man buys her but her new life is much less pampered, being left outside in the cold and being poorly-maintained. One night, she is stolen, chased by the police and totaled in the resulting wreck. Rotting in a junkyard, all looks hopeless for Susie when a young man notices her, buys her, and with the help of his friends, completely restores and revives her into a brand new hotrod.Ty Ty Walden , a widower, and his two daughters, live in the backwoods of Georgia during the Great Depression. While Ty Ty searches for gold on his farm, his son-in-law Will  cheats on his wife Rosamund  with Griselda . Ty Ty has been digging for gold on his land for 15 years. Pluto Swint  arrives to let the farmer know he's running for sheriff. Swint is invited to come around back where Darlin' Jill  is taking a bath in an outdoor bathtub positioned near a handpump and spigot. She asks him to pump some more water . He is asked to keep his eyes closed, but takes a pleasurable peek. Ty Ty spends most of his time digging holes, constantly searching for the treasure his grandfather left him. Consequently the farm has suffered from years of neglect. He could have turned a profit any time if only he had bought some seed and planted it in the fields but he thinks it only a matter of time before he finds where gold was buried.  The seductive lure of easy gold a mere shovel or two away is actually leading him to squander his inheritance. If his real treasure lies in his daughters, the viewer is invited to gauge the depth of that genealogical reserve, inasmuch as Darlin' Jill appears to be a woman of equally easy morals. In the belief that having an albino with him in his quest for treasure will bring him great fortune, Ty Ty transports and wrongfully imprisons Dave Dawson , a man with white hair and pink eyes, demanding that he help him locate the buried treasure. Ty Ty reasons that it is not actually wrongful detainment, because the albino at any time could lead him to the treasure and thereby earn his release. In anticipation of a potential find he changes the location of a plot of land allocated to the church in a tithing relationship , in order to keep any gold found there for himself. He moves the plot's marker, a large, ramshackle cross, to the side of the house. but lo and behold that is exactly where the divining rod in the hands of the albino comes to rest, supposedly indicating where the gold is buried. However, seeing that the divining rod was pulling the albino towards the side of the house, Ty Ty had again pulled the marker out of the ground explaining that God told him to move it, thereby absolving him from giving any gold found in this new spot to the church. He replants the marker farther away on the edge of a pond for it "to be cooler". In the middle of the night Will leaves his house, followed by Griselda. He breaks open the mill's gates and enters the property. At first she distracts him from his purpose and they kiss. He then escorts her back to the gates and asks the growing  crowd to restrain her. He reenters and turns on the power, and the machines reactivate to the cheers of the crowd. Hearing the rioters' assembly and the mill's power turned on, the caretaker comes from an inside office and shoots Will for trespassing. He staggers outside and the crowd's cheers turn to silence. They carry his body back to his house. Griselda enters to tell his wife the bad news, but she cries out that she already knows what has happened. Implicitly, at this point the tide in the county elections turns irreversibly. The populist Pluto Swint is elected sheriff, replacing the incumbent. The Walden family squabble after Will's funeral, particularly over Griselda's actions at the mill, and the numerous affections which she attracts from the other sons. The family ultimately decide to give up searching for gold. The film ends with them contentedly ploughing for the first time in years. Ty Ty finds the blade of an old shovel in the ground, and speculates about whether the gold might lie in that spot. As he begins digging again, the camera pans to the pond and the final resting place of the marker for God's Little Acre.{{Expand section}} From the NY Times: In the words of its star Leonard Nimoy, Kid Monk Baroni was the sort of film that "made unknowns out of celebrities." The young Nimoy is actually quite good as the title character, a boxer whose misshapen face has earned him the unwelcome nickname "Monk." Formerly an unregenerate street punk, Baroni is set on the proper path by parish priest Father Callahan . Unfortunately, a run-in with his old gang forces Baroni to skip town. He becomes a professional pugilist under the aegis of manager Hellman , taking out his pent-up frustrations in the ring. Able to afford plastic surgery, Baroni buys himself a handsome new face—and, with it, a dangerously oversized ego. Hoping to protect his new face from harm, Baroni washes out in the boxing ring, but redemption—and a lasting romance with Emily Brooks --await just around the corner. Kid Monk Baroni was well-directed by Harold Schuster, whose previous efforts included My Friend Flicka and So Dear to My Heart. A flop at the box office, the film did nothing for the career of Leonard Nimoy, who was obliged to spend the next 15 years in relative obscurity before attaining a second chance at big-time stardom with TV's Star Trek.When US Navy airman Commander Laurie Vining takes up his new posting in London with his new wife Gillian he has no idea that his first wife Candy Markham will turn up and threaten his martial bliss by claiming they are still married. Faithful confidant Hank Hanlon continually stirs things up and tries to keep order. Other lives that are changed forever by the intervention include lawyer Frank Betterton.Anna Kalman is an accomplished London-based actress who has given up hope of finding the man of her dreams. Through her brother-in-law she meets a handsome economist, Philip Adams, and they fall in love. However, he is keeping a secret from her. As opposed to being a married man who pretends to be single, Philip is a bachelor who pretends to be married. When she learns of his lie, Anna becomes furious and works out a plan to get even. However after an open conversation they plan to get married.In Post-WW2 London, a young woman, Jean Paget, is informed by solicitor Noel Strachan that she has a large inheritance. Asked what she wants to do, Jean decides to travel to Malaya to build a well in a small village. Jean goes to the village and arranges for the well to be dug. The women will not now have to walk so far each day to collect water, as they have always done. She recalls her life in the village for three years of the war. The film flashes back to 1942 when Jean was working in an office in Kuala Lumpur in Malaya when the Japanese invaded and she was taken prisoner. As part of a group of women and children , she is the only one to speak Malay fluently, and so takes a leading role in the group. But the Japanese refuse to take any responsibility for the group, marching them from one village to another. Many of them, unused to physical labour, die. Jean is only able to survive because she understands local ways and is prepared to 'go native'. The group meets a young Australian soldier, Sergeant Joe Harman, also a prisoner, who is driving a truck for the Japanese. He and Jean strike up a friendship and he tells her about the town of Alice Springs, where he grew up. Appalled at their treatment by the Japanese, he steals food and medicines to help them. Jean does not correct his impression that she's married. When the thefts are discovered and investigated, Harman takes the blame to save Jean and the rest of the group. He is crucified on a tree and left to die by the Japanese soldiers. The distraught women are marched away, believing that Joe is dead. To further humiliate them, the Japanese assign only one guard to the group, an elderly sergeant. They become friendly with him, although they can barely communicate. They even help to carry his pack and rifle. When he dies of exhaustion, Jean asks the elders of a village if they may stay and work in the paddy fields, asking only food and a place to sleep. The elders agree and they live and work there for three years, until the war ends. The film returns to the present, and Jean discovers from the well-diggers that Joe Harman survived his punishment and returned to Australia. She decides to travel on to Australia to find him. On her travels, she visits the town of Alice Springs, where Joe lived before the war, and is much impressed with the quality of life there. She then travels to the  primitive town of Willstown in the Queensland outback, where Joe has become manager of a cattle station. But meanwhile, Joe has learnt that Jean survived the war and that she wasn't married. He travels to London to find her, using money won in a lottery. It's some time before they are reunited in Alice Springs and they fall in love immediately.Mary Tudor falls in love with a new arrival to court, Charles Brandon. She convinces her brother King Henry VIII to make him his Captain of the Guard. Meanwhile, Henry is determined to marry her off to the aging King Louis XII of France as part of a peace agreement. Mary's longtime suitor the Duke of Buckingham takes a dislike to Charles as he is a commoner and the Duke wants Mary for himself. However, troubled by his feelings for the princess, Brandon resigns and decides to sail to the New World. Against the advice of her lady-in-waiting Lady Margaret, Mary dresses up like a boy and follows Brandon to Bristol. Henry's men find them and throw Brandon in the Tower of London. King Henry agrees to spare his life if Mary will marry King Louis and tells her that when Louis dies she is free to marry whoever she wants. Meanwhile, Mary asks the Duke of Buckingham for help but he only pretends to help Brandon escape from the Tower, really planning to have him killed while escaping. The Duke thinks he is drowned in the Thames, but he survives. Mary marries King Louis and encourages him to drink to excess and be active so that his already deteriorating health worsens. His heir Francis makes it clear that he will not return Mary to England after the king's death, but keep her for himself. When she goes to him for help, the Duke of Buckingham tells Lady Margaret that Brandon is dead and decides to go "rescue" Mary himself. Lady Margaret discovers that Brandon is alive and learning of the Duke's treachery they hurry back to France. Louis dies and the Duke of Buckingham arrives in France to bring Mary back to England. He tells her that Brandon is dead and tries to force her to marry him. Charles arrives in time, rescues her and kills the Duke. Mary and Brandon are married and remind Henry of his promise to let her pick her second husband. He forgives them and makes Charles Duke of Suffolk.George and Harold, American song-and dance-men performing in Melbourne, Australia, have to leave in a hurry to avoid various marriage proposals. They end up in Darwin, where they take jobs as pearl divers for a prince. They are taken by boat to an idyllic island on the way to Bali, . They vie with each other for the favours of exotic  Princess Lala, a cousin of the Prince. The hazardous dive produces a chest of priceless jewels, which the prince plans to claim as his own. After escaping from the prince and his henchmen, the three are shipwrecked and washed up on another island. Lala is now in love with both of the boys and can't decide which to choose. Following further romantic complications, the boys participate in a traditional marriage ceremony, both thinking they're marrying Lala. In fact, she's being unwillingly married to the already much-married King while they end up married to each other. Displeased with two men being married to each other, the volcano god initiates a massive eruption. After escaping it, the three end up on yet another beach where Lala chooses George over Harold. Undaunted, Harold conjures up Jane Russell from a basket by playing a flute and thinks that he's going to get her, but she too rejects Harold, and George walks off with both Jane and Lala. Harold is left alone on the beach, demanding that the film shouldn't finish and asking the audience to stick around to see what's going to happen.The Pied Piper  is first spotted working magic in Hamelin by a disabled boy, Paul, and playing his signature tune In the Hall of the Mountain King. Paul tells his best friend, the schoolteacher Truson , also played by Johnson, but Truson is skeptical. The town of Hamelin has entered a competition in order to win a banner from the King. To this end, the Mayor  exhorts the people to work incessantly, even the children, to the extent that they are denied school and play. Truson protests, but his protests go unheeded by the arrogant Mayor. As part of a competition between several villages, the Mayor and his cabinet plan to construct golden chimes to impress the King's Emissary, who is due to pay a visit to Hamelin. But their efforts are temporarily halted when the town is invaded by rats, which have fled the neighboring city of Hamelout after the Weser River flooded and destroyed the town. It is then that the Piper magically appears before the Mayor and his councilors.  Asking to be paid all the money in the town's treasury,  he offers to rid the town of the rats. An unusual element is introduced into the story here: whenever the Piper plays a happy tune for the children, only Truson and the children can hear it. When he plays "In the Hall of the Mountain King" and leads the rats to their doom in the river, the children quickly fall asleep and only the material-minded adults such as the Mayor, but not Truson, can hear the music. The Piper rids the town of the rats, but rather than simply paying him, the Mayor and his Cabinet attempt to use legal pettifoggery to trick him into an agreement whereby he must deposit a certain amount of money as a guarantee that the rats will not return, and if they do he must return the rest of the money that he has been paid. Furious, the Piper leaves without his money, and the Mayor plots to use the gold to construct the chimes. Truson, who is in love with the Mayor's daughter Mara  is thrown in jail for speaking out against this injustice. The Mayor plans to marry off Mara to the King's Emissary , but at this point, the Piper takes his revenge. Playing a happy variation on "In the Hall of the Mountain King", he leads the children of Hamelin away and into a beautiful kingdom concealed by a cave which magically opens to let the children in. But Paul is accidentally left behind, after he falls while trying to catch up with the other children and the cave closes before he can pass through. The rest of the plot concerns the resolution of the Truson-Mara love story, the attempts of the adults to bring back the children, the Mayor's repentance, and the Piper's forgiveness. A happy ending was added to the poem in order to keep the program a family special.  The poem's storyline was greatly embellished in order to pad it out to ninety minutes. The characters of Truson, Mara, and the King's Emissary, as well as several bit roles, were invented for the film, as were the happy ending and the storyline about the town entering a competition to win a banner from the King. In the poem, however, the mayor still tries to trick the Piper over the payment for ridding the town of rats. In Browning's original poem, and in the original legend on which the poem was based, the children never do come back.While on duty, Merchant Marine Tom Wingfield recalls his life in a dilapidated St. Louis apartment with his delusional mother Amanda and crippled younger sister Laura, and their story unfolds via flashback. Abandoned by her husband, Amanda is forced to sell magazine subscriptions, but still considers herself superior to her working class neighbors. Concerned about her daughter, a shy loner who is training to be a secretary, but whose real interest is her collection of glass animal figurines, Amanda urges Tom to bring home a friend who might be interested in dating his sister. He finally relents and invites Jim O'Connor to dinner. Amanda is thrilled that her daughter finally will have a "gentleman caller" courting her. Determined to make a good first impression, she makes elaborate preparations for the meal, but complications arise when Laura learns the name of their expected guest, a boy she recalls was one of the most popular in high school. Feigning illness, she initially refuses to join everyone at the dinner table, but eventually Amanda encourages her to join the group, then arranges for Laura and Jim to be alone. Realizing she suffers from an inferiority complex, he draws her out of her shell by expressing interest in her collection and then persuading her to dance with him. Stumbling, Laura causes a glass unicorn to fall to the floor and lose its horn. At first upset by the damage, she realizes the loss of the horn makes the unicorn more like the horses and therefore less noticeable, as she feels she herself is because of her pronounced limp. Jim suggests he and Laura go to the Paradise Ballroom, and Amanda is delighted, until he mentions he is engaged to a woman named Betty. Laura gives him the broken unicorn and invites him to return some day with his fiancée, but after he leaves her devastated mother berates Tom for raising her hopes. Laura is more understanding and reminds her brother she loves him. Seemingly free of her limp and brimming with self-confidence, Laura awaits a visit from another "gentleman caller" in an upbeat ending that deviates from the play.In the Buheirat rural area, lives Ehsan  with her father  who tends and takes care of a rich family's house. In his breaks, her father usually goes hunting with his friends. In the house, Ehsan, who is usually left alone with the rich man's son, Mamdouh , falls in love with him, but he doesn't share her love. This man notices her beauty and he eventually falls in love with her, only secretly. One day, he arrives home drunk. He assaults and rapes her. Weeks later, she discovers that she became pregnant, but decides not to reveal that to her father. Instead, she travels to Cairo, changes her name to Amal, and months later, she gives birth to a daughter . Years later, Ehsan  graduates as a nurse, and Mamdouh, who had traveled to Europe to complete his studies, graduates as a doctor. He returns to Cairo to work in a hospital, where luck and coincidence brings him and her together, except he does not recognize her. A love relationship starts between the two. Ehsan's father learns of her location and travels to see his missing daughter. Meanwhile, Ehsan reveals the truth to Mamdouh, and both agree to marry each other. The father arrives to find his daughter has married a man and started a family.After his wife Jane admits to an extramarital affair, Iowa attorney Daniel Trask abandons her and their daughters and heads for Los Angeles. His flight is delayed, and while waiting in the airport restaurant he meets a few of his fellow passengers: troubled, alcoholic Dr. Robert Fortness, haunted by his responsibility for a car accident in which a colleague was killed, is returning home to his wife Claire and teenaged son Jerry, and plans to tell the district attorney the truth about the incident; aspiring actress Binky Gay, who is hoping to free her husband Mike from the clutches of his domineering mother, former vaudevillian Sallie Carr; and overly loud traveling salesman Eddie Hoke, whose photograph of his young, attractive wife Marie wearing a swimsuit proves to be quite different from reality. When a storm forces the plane to land en route, they continue to share their life stories via flashbacks during the unexpected four-hour layover. They exchange home phone numbers with the idea they may one day have a reunion. Following a crash that kills his three acquaintances, Trask contacts their families by phone and invites himself to their homes. Despite Claire's objections, Trask tells Jerry the truth about his father's past, but assures him he was a good man determined to right the wrong he had committed. Hoping to change Sallie's opinion of her daughter-in-law, he tells her Binky had been cast as Mary Martin's replacement in South Pacific on Broadway and had recommended Sallie for a role. Trask's final visit is to Marie, who he discovers is an invalid paralyzed from the waist down. Marie reveals that early in her marriage she had left Eddie, who she found to be vulgar and tiresome, for another man, who deserted her after she hit her head on a dock while she was swimming. While in the hospital, she was confined to an iron lung and feeling hopeless about her future when Eddie arrived to take her home. Marie tells Trask that despite his often obnoxious behavior, Eddie was the most decent man she had ever known, and had taught her the true meaning of love. Marie's story teaches Trask a lesson about marital infidelity and forgiveness, and he calls Jane to tell her he's returning home.Commander Peter Kent of the Royal Navy and his wife May have three children, ranging form five to eleven years: Peter, Anne and Fusty. Kent comes home after three years abroad with no idea how to handle the children. When Mary has to fly to Canada, Peter takes his children to his father's new country home, which turns out to be a windmill. They end up clashing with an Americna family in the neighbourhood.New England schoolteacher Nancy Willows leaves her school and fiancee David Parker William Leslie to go to New York City for a career as a lyricist. Her neighbours across the hall are an easy going singer named Jerry Dennis  and his hot headed songwriter roommate Marty Adams  who is incapable of writing acceptable lyrics for his songs.The married life of singers Antonio Castillo  and Isabel del Río  isn't as successful as their professional careers&mdash;that is because of their mutual jealousy and criticism. As if things weren't to drastic already, Isabel's cousin Felipe Treviño  arrives from his hometown after a devastating epidemic and decides to move in with them. After a trip to Santa María del Maíz, Antonio's hometown, Antonio and Isabel find themselves to be the victims of a career separation unintentionally orchestrated by Felipe. Both singers decide to go solo separate ways, Isabel tackles theatre with Spanish businessman César Ordóñez , while Antonio tries luck as a tenor under the instruction of Italian chocolate magnate Dina Castellammare . However Felipe plans cunning ways to join the singers back into matrimonial harmony.Hugh  and Miriam Halsworth  are in the final stages of their divorce procedure. Miriam wants to separate because he's addicted to gambling - although he often wins. She's living with her daughter Barbara , her son-in-law Jerry Denham  and her little grandchild. Hugh, who's living next door to them, makes fuzz to the gardener about his rosebushes. Hugh is also Jerry's boss. They are society reporters, and have to follow Victor Macfarland , a self-made multimillionaire who's after a seat in the Senate. Twenty years ago Hugh and Victor were rivals for Miriam's hand. A blonde fortune hunter, Joyce Mannering , is trying to attract Victor, but he's only interested in winning back Miriam. She accepts his marriage proposal, but is disappointed when he postpones the marriage for an appointment in Washington. Just before he steps on the plane he explains to Miriam why he left her twenty years ago . Miriam is furious with Hugh but he doesn't know why. She refuses to let him in, which leads to a comical intermezzo in which Hugh and Jerry are arrested by the police. They are identified by Miriam and Barbara, and may leave the police station. Back home Miriam explains to Hugh that she was so angry because Victor told her that twenty years ago Hugh won her hand in a game of craps. Hugh admits this, and still has those two dice with him. He asks her to throw. It turns out the dice were loaded; they always throw three and four. Hugh admits he cheated because the stake was so high. Miriam is pleased with this explanation and they reconcile.The story is about a couple who discover two trees in their backyard that grow money. One morning a few days after Polly Baxter  purchased a couple of trees and planted them in her backyard, a $5 bill floats in through an open window, spurring a curious turn of luck to her family's ongoing financial concerns. As she continues to collect more in the following days and weeks, Polly finds that the money is actually growing on the new trees that she planted and keeps that discovery from her husband Philip . Polly finds ways to use the money, while her husband wants it to be turned in to the police. The neighbors, the media, the bank, the I.R.S., and the U.S. Treasury all get involved. Comedy ensues as the Baxters struggle with newfound ethical dilemmas; e.g., is this money legal or counterfeit, and what happens when the money dries up like an old leaf? All the time, however, Polly maintains that the world is full of wonder, if only people would believe.On the lam after a robbery and needing a place to hide out, Vermilion O'Toole and her partner, Newt Cole, settle down in a new town. Going by a new name, Mae Madison, the lady outlaw is surprised by three young boys who are looking for a new wife for their recently widowed dad, Will Hall. A complication or two arises when the new gal and Will begin to hit it off.Pedro  and Julián  are friends and they love the same woman, Adela . Madrid, 1905, Pedro and Adela had gotten married but Julian live with them. 1930. Adela discovers she is going to die and the two men had hidden the illness. 1955. Adelita , Adela's grand daughter, visits to the two men and they remember their love to Adele.Jeffrey Lynn plays a defeated politician who takes over as editor of a small town newspaper in an effort to get himself elected. His campaign is intended to be a continuing expose of the evils of big industry, and his strategy is to publish daily investigations of industrial skullduggery and pollution. Marilyn Monroe, listed as one of the film's stars, actually plays a very small bit as Iris Martin, the shapely office secretary. On a school outing to an abandoned mine, Jeffrey Lynn's little sister is trapped in the collapse of a mine tunnel, and the town's industries come to her rescue. After little sister is rescued and flown in a company plane to the big city, Lynn has a change of heart and recognizes that the industrial towns-people are actually doing their best to help their fellow citizens.The movie is based on a Fatmir Gjata screenplay. Gjata had written a novel with the same title earlier. The events evolve in the 1950s. The main character, Tana, is a smart, outgoing and progressive young woman. She is in love with Stefan ([[Naim Frashëri  and they both live in an unnamed mountain village in Albania. Tana has to face the old mentality of her old grandfather and she also has to fight the jealousy of Lefter . It is a love game, while socialist progress is highlighted as is often in the socialist realism. The movie is famous for containing the first kiss in an Albanian movie.In 1938, Mme. Alice , chief designer of a famous London fashion house, has lost her touch. Where once she was the most sought after designer in the city, now her creations seem locked in the past and clients are looking elsewhere for modern fashions. She is persuaded by her senior assistant Martha  that she needs a long holiday to recapture her creative inspiration. Once Mme. Alice has departed the fiercely ambitious Martha, who has been biding her time for several years, launches a coup, designing and presenting a range of up-to-the-minute garments which are a huge success with the fashion media and bring clients flocking back to the salon. The financial backer of the business is delighted with the upturn in profits; Martha is promoted to chief designer and Mme. Alice is quietly retired. Over the course of the next decade Martha, with the help of Alison , a talented girl she took on straight out of school, restores the house to its pre-eminent position in the London fashion world. She becomes so driven that she starts not to care who she treads on in her quest to be the best in the business. Over the years while her professional career goes from strength to strength, she neglects friends, treats associates badly and makes business enemies. By the start of the 1950s Martha too seems to have had her day; appreciation for her designs tapers off and her reputation falls. Those she has alienated on the way up are only too happy to watch her on the way down. Meanwhile Alison, having waited for her own chance, seizes the opportunity to present her own designs which are acclaimed as fresh, innovative and contemporary. Alison is in, Martha is out, and the cycle begins again.Tony Manetta is a single father, a widower, raising 11-year-old son Ally while owning and operating a small Miami Beach hotel called the Garden of Eden. In debt, given 48 hours by his bank to raise a little more than $5,000 or else lose his hotel, Tony in desperation tells older brother Mario that he needs a loan for Ally's sake, lying that the boy is ill. Mario and wife Sophie promptly fly from New York to Florida and find out the truth. Tony is "a bum" in Mario's eyes who puts his time and money into fanciful schemes rather than honest work. He is willing to stake Tony with funds, but only to begin a sensible small business such as a five-and-ten store. Tony also is set up with Eloise Rogers, a widow and acquaintance of Sophie's, who is seen to be a more appropriate companion for Tony than his current girlfriend, Shirl. To his surprise, Tony is impressed with Eloise and his son Ally takes an immediate liking to her. Mario offends her with prying questions about her husband's will and finances, causing Tony to confess that's the reason they were introduced. Eloise reveals to Tony that having lost both her husband and son, she appreciates the notion of being with someone again who needs her. An old pal, Jerry Marks, now a wealthy promoter, invites Tony to a party. Pretending to be more prosperous than he is, Tony explains his idea to buy a piece of land in Florida and open a second Disneyland there. Jerry seems interested in being his partner. He takes Tony to a dog-racing track, where Tony uses the $500 he earned from selling his car to match Jerry's large bet. His dog wins, but Jerry coaxes him into letting it ride in the next race on a dog called Lucky Ally. The obvious desperation in Tony's voice as he roots for the dog to win makes it clear that he is not a man of means. Jerry insults him afterward, and when Tony throws a handout back in his face, Tony is punched by one of Jerry's associates. Literally a beaten man, Tony decides the best thing for Ally is to go live with Mario and Sophie from now on, even telling the unconvinced boy that he's not wanted. Tony goes off to the beach by himself, but Ally runs out to be with him, and soon they are joined by Eloise.A middle-aged man who places a two-dollar bet on a horse at the track and wins. The widower with two teenaged daughters becomes hooked on gambling and within a week he begins cashing in his life savings to pay off his bookie. To make matters worse, he's being grifted by a beautiful con woman and her husband for thousands of dollars. To try to get even, the man begins betting on long shots.The film is about a pregnant girl found stabbed on Hampstead Heath. Although she appears to be white, her brother ([[Earl Cameron  arrives at the police station to give evidence and he is black. It then becomes evident to the police officers that this girl has been passing for white.Britmovie.co.uk Features, Sapphire by David Cairns This film reveals the underlying insecurities and fears of ordinary people that exist towards another race.Under the sky of Paris, during a day, we see large and small events that occur in the lives of several people whose fates will interfere. A poor old lady, after searching in vain all day to feed her cats, receives unexpected reward of a mother who, thanks to her, found at night her daughter who had been lost since morning. A young girl, dreaming of love, refuses the advances of her childhood friend to be stabbed to death by a sadistic sculptor. The latter is shot by a policeman who accidentally injured a worker who was returning home after the successful conclusion of a strike. Rushed to hospital, the injured worker is saved through the first open-heart surgery performed by a young surgeon who has just flunked his intern exam.The film tells the story of a pacifist Quaker family in southern Indiana during the American Civil War. The father of the family is gradually converted to supporting the war. The protagonist of the story is Jess Birdwell  the patriarch of the Birdwell family whose worldliness is forever coming in conflict with his being a Quaker. Jess's wife Eliza  is a deeply religious woman and is steadfast in her refusal to engage in violence of any sort. Jess's daughter Mattie  wants to remain a Quaker but has fallen in love with a dashing cavalry officer , a love that is against her mother's wishes. Jess's youngest child "Little" Jess  is a feisty child whose comical feud with his mother's pet goose causes her nothing but heartache. Jess's elder son Josh  is a young man torn between his hate for violence and the knowledge that to protect his family he must join the military and fight the invaders. We are introduced to the family via its youngest member, "Little" Jess, who is forever at war with his mother's pet goose. The story begins as an easygoing and humorous tale of Quakers trying to maintain their faith as they get ready and then go to Meeting on a Sunday. The mood shifts dramatically when the meeting is interrupted by a Union officer who asks how the Quaker men can stand by when their houses will be looted and their families terrorized by the approaching Confederate army. He questions various young men specifically, doubting their courage and suggesting that they are hiding behind their religion out of fear. When directly confronted with the question of his being afraid to fight, Josh Birdwell responds honestly that it might be the case. His honesty provokes the wrath of Purdy, a Quaker elder who is quick to condemn people who don't believe as he does. The film returns to comedy as the Quakers try to maintain their ways, but one is always reminded throughout that the Confederate Army is drawing closer every day. When the Confederates finally arrive, the situation turns deadly serious. Jess is cultivating his fields when he notices an immense cloud of smoke on the horizon, the kind that can only be produced by the burning of a city. Josh soon arrives and tells them the entire neighboring community has been reduced to a land of ash and corpses. Josh believes that he must fight, a conviction that threatens to destroy the family. Eliza tells him that by turning his back to their religion he's turning his back on her, but Jess sees things a different way, explaining to her: "A man's life ain't worth a hill of beans except he lives up to his own conscience." With the story's climax at hand, each member of the family is forced in their own way to confront the question of whether or not it is ever right for a Christian to engage in violence.The film centers on Owen Pentecost  from North Carolina, who comes to Denver on a whim. He encounters Ann Merry Alaine , who is going there to open a dress shop. When they get to Denver, Owen enters a hotel saloon, and wins a poker game with the owner, who bet his estate on this last game. Along with the hotel comes Boston Grant . Both of the women in the town begin to fall for Owen. Owen however has money on his mind, and the gold of the town's Confederates is what is revealed he went there for originally. But the predominantly Union town wants the gold, and with the Civil War approaching, the town is split. Owen leads the Southerners into a last escape attempt with the gold.Will Keough is a rancher with two younger brothers, who are called Hade and Bless. They live with their widowed mother, Hannah, whose husband was bitten by a rattlesnake when Bless was a young boy. Ever since that day, Hannah has been determined to shield Bless from the hard life of the West and turn him instead into a refined, gentler soul. In so doing, she sometimes embarrasses Bless in front of the ranch's other men. Hannah wants to move to the big, sophisticated city of St. Louis and take her youngest son with her. Bless refuses at the last minute, then feels guilty when the months go by and his unhappy mother becomes ill and passes away. Will, meanwhile, builds the ranch into one of the territory's largest. His primary concerns are rustlers and neighbor Audrey, whom he loves and intends to marry, although he has been slow to commit. What he doesn't know is that Audrey has fallen in love with Bless. Before and during a cattle drive to Abilene, more than once Bless is accused of being cowardly. He fails to adequately back up Hade in a bar fight. A fake rattlesnake is placed on Bless while asleep on the trail, terrifying him. Hade is trampled to death by stampeding cattle. Bless then alienates Will by confessing that he and Audrey wish to marry. When a battle with rustlers begins, however, Bless bravely leads the charge against them, whereupon Will tells Aud that he approves of their future together.As the narrator invites us to explore the horrors of an insane mind, a young woman wakes from a nightmare in a cheap hotel room. We follow her through the skid-row night and encounters with an abusive husband; a wino; a pimp and the rich man for whom he panders; a flashback to her traumatic childhood ; violence; pursuit through dark streets... Again the young woman wakes up. Was it only another nightmare?Kim , an orphan boy in 1885 India during the British Raj, works at times for his friend Mahbub Ali , a roguish horse trader who is also a secret agent for the British. Mahbub Ali becomes aware of a Russian-backed plot to instigate a rebellion. Meanwhile, Kim encounters an elderly Buddhist lama  from Tibet, who is on a quest to find the "River of the Arrow", whose waters will cleanse him spiritually. Mahbub Ali has the young boy become the kindly priest's "chela" or disciple so that he can deliver a message to Colonel Creighton ([[Robert Douglas , Mahbub Ali's superior. On the journey along the Grand Trunk Road, the two travelers grow to love each other. One day, British soldiers set up camp. Kim notices that their regimental flag depicts a red bull on a green field, which matches a prophecy left him by his now-deceased father, so he sneaks into the encampment and is accosted by a sentry. During a scuffle, his captors discover documents Kim possesses which show that he is actually the son of Kimball O'Hara, an Irish soldier who served in the regiment. The lama decides that Kim should go among his own kind to be educated  and pays for his tuition at the finest school in India. The boy chafes at the many restrictions, but eventually settles down. Mahbub Ali convinces Colonel Creighton, that the boy has the potential to become a wonderful spy; to that end, Kim receives extra training from Lurgan  during the first part of his summer vacation. Later, Kim saves the life of Mahbub Ali. He is then reunited with his lama and sent to help Hurree Chunder  keep an eye on two Russian spies posing as surveyors. When he finds Chunder murdered, Kim continues the mission by persuading the Russians to hire him as their servant. He is eventually unmasked and the lama is beaten up. When news of Chunder's death reaches the British, Mahbub Ali is sent to take his place; he rescues Kim and takes charge of the interlopers' papers, but is forced to kill the Russians. In the end, the injured lama finds his river , stumbles to it, and dies contentedly.Chris Walters is a happily married father of two. For his 13th wedding anniversary, he sneaks home with a gift for wife Alice, a diamond brooch, and with a desire to have a romantic interlude. Interruptions ensue. If it isn't their daughters, Debbie and Okkie, needing something, it's their maid, Millie, or it's Alice's mother on the phone. And then two delivery men arrive with a new television set. It's a gift from Alice's parents, Lilly and Arthur. Chris is not pleased. He hates television. He thinks the whole idea of TV is a needless distraction and corrupting influence on today's youth. At work, Chris has a partner, Bud, who is trying to woo a new client, Jeanette Revere, a woman who has been divorced four times. Jeanette is amazed in this day and age that a couple can remain happily married as long as the Walterses have. Over a celebration dinner, Chris lets it slip that he and Alice didn't need TV when they first met because they were already romantically involved. Lilly and Arthur are offended, having been under the impression that Alice didn't have relations with Chris until they were wed. They storm out. Chris is so angry, he kicks in the screen of the new TV. He argues with Alice and has to spend his anniversary night sleeping on the sofa. A gift arrives from Bud -- it's another TV. Chris is irritated again but promises not to cause a scene this time. When they turn it on, however, a show called "Kids Council" has his daughter Debbie as a guest. And the child blurts out for all to hear that her parents are having marital difficulties and had been intimate prior to their wedding. Chris again kicks in the TV. Alice throws her husband out of the house this time. Meantime, her parents also have a quarrel, which leads to Lilly moving in with her daughter. Everybody's angry now. A distraught Chris wants to come home. Alice feels no one cares about her. She intends to leave home herself. The family doctor, however, suddenly informs Alice that she is pregnant. She decides to give Chris another chance ... as a gift from him arrives, yet another TV.Peter Standish is an American atomic scientist who is working in a nuclear laboratory in London. His co-worker Roger Forsyth, who is worrying about Peter's lack of social activities, takes him to a house in Berkeley Square he inherited. It is there where Peter announces his wishes of living in the 18th century among the high-class family Petigrew he has studied the last years. Because of a lightning strike, he is brought back to 1784, where he is thought to be the first Peter Standish, the American cousin of the Petigrews who, according to history, will soon romance and marry Kate Petigrew. Peter falls for Kate, but he is more interested in her sister Helen, of whom he has never found any records. Over the next few days, Peter makes several bad impressions on the family by using modern day language and revealing information he could not have known if he had actually grown up in the 18th century. Helen, however, is the only one not suspicious of Peter's presence and falls in love with him as well. Peter admits to her that the 18th century is not what he thought it would be. The narrow-minded people, the poverty and the dirt irritate him. Furthermore, he admits that he is from the future and shows Helen his hidden laboratory in the basement with modern inventions. Rather than being afraid, Helen becomes even more interested in Peter. They fall in love, despite Peter's awareness that he has to marry Kate in order to not change history. Helen begs him not to say things which makes him look odd, and that night, at a formal party, Peter tries to impress the famous Duchess of Devonshire, but he accidentally talks about her as if he is talking about her legacy, which makes her uneasy. Kate is fed up with Peter and announces that she will not marry him. Rather than trying to court her somehow, Peter is drawn to Helen, who is interested on finding out more about the future. Things start to look bad for Peter when his laboratory is uncovered. He is committed to the Bethlem Royal Hospital. Before being brought away, he rushes to Helen's room, where she places a crux ansata in order to remind him of her love for him. While being taken away, lighting strikes again and Peter is back in present life. There, Forsyth tells him he has been acting like a mad man for the past two weeks. Peter is shocked when he meets Forsyth's sister Martha, who resembles Helen. He rushes out to the graveyard in front of his house, where he not only discovers Helen's grave, but that she died of grief shortly after he was taken away to the asylum.Chick Allen  is a paratrooper. He invites his former partner, Hap Smith , to help out with a show that he and the other soldiers are preparing. However, the general is unhappy with the quality of past shows and is threatening to eliminate them unless the quality improves, which is why Chick has invited Hap to help. Hap, who has continued the nightclub act with a new partner, Betsy Carter , poses as a soldier so that he can do one performance for Chick with the general in the audience. However, the show impresses the general so much that he arranges for the show  to tour other camps. Fearing a court-martial, Chick and the rest of the performers pass Hap off as Private "Dogface" Dolan, while the real "Dogface"  goes into hiding. Hap undergoes paratrooper training to keep up the ruse, but he is very accident prone. However, it works to his benefit as everything he does inadvertently is the 'correct military conduct'. The top sergeant ([[Robert Strauss  takes notice and praises him. Understandably, Hap wants to return to civilian life and tries to sneak away at any chance he can get, but Chick always manages to stop him. During one of his escape attempts, during some war maneuvers, Hap destroys a key bridge and captures an enemy general. Hap is eventually exposed as a civilian, but is sworn in as a paratrooper and becomes a hero.Three smart Las Vegas theatrical girls decide to look for husbands; - Carol, , who thinks a millionaire would be good, Abby , who is in love with baritone Vince Nichols , but is perturbed because he gambles, and June , who has a crush on Ted Lansing, a dancer, . Ted, however, is in love with Abby. Picturegoer, 19 January 1952, p.14The story is rather similar to the ending of Singin' in the Rain, where a singer fraudulently "borrows" the voice of Norman Wisdom's character.A stranger in town meets pretty young Susan Martinez De La Cruz and accompanies her to a barbecue, where wealthy Jason Carberry is saying a few words for the recently departed Robin Randall, a citizen who got shot. Jason objects to the stranger's presence, being Susan's guardian and protective of her. He challenges him to a shootout, but the stranger pulls his pistol before Jason's can even clear the holster. Calaveras Kate, a saloon singer who's in love with Jason, is relieved when the stranger declines to pull the trigger. Rafael Moreno suddenly rides into town and picks a fight with the stranger. Their brawl continues until the arrival of Judge Wallace Wintrop and his niece, Sheila, who have come to town from back East and deplore all this random violence out West. The stranger is recognized as Reb Randall, the dead man's brother. He is looking for the killer, who could be Rafael, or could be Jason, or could even be Billy Buckett, the coward of the county. The women hold their breath to see if the men they love will survive.During the Pandavas' Aranyavasa , Arjuna sends his wife Subhadra and their son Abhimanyu to Dwaraka to stay at her maternal home with her brothers, Krishna and Balarama . Sasirekha([[Savitri , Balarama's daughter and Abhimanyu  are deep in love with each other from their childhood. Also at the time of Sasirekha's birth Balarama promises to marry her to Abhimanyu when they grow up. However, Balarama's wife Revathi refuses to honour that commitment, as the Pandavas loose their kingdom and wealth in a gamble with Kauravas and are sent to exile. Balarama instead, on the face of Shakuni's and the Kauravas' cunning persuasion, decides to marry Sasirekha to Lakshmana Kumara , who is the son of his favourite disciple, Duryodhana . Krishna advises Subhadra and Abhimanyu to approach Ghatotkacha . Initially, Ghatotkacha assumes them to be intruders in his forest and attacks them, but later apologizes for his misunderstanding. When Subhadra narrates about what happened of her son and Sasirekha, Ghatotkacha decides to play some trickery in Dwaraka. He first, with the knowledge of Krishna and a servant girl, flies the sleeping Sasirekha along with her bed, from Dwaraka to his forest. Next, using his magical powers, he assumes the form of Sasirekha  and goes back to Dwaraka and wrecks her marriage with Lakshmana Kumara. He also performs some practical jokes and comical acts while in disguise. Also, his retinues act as the marriage overseers and provide comic relief as well. To further break the marriage, Ghatotkacha's follower's  enter the Bridegroom's guest house  and draws hilarious comedy to the audience with Balaiah and Allu Rama Lingaiah. They also create a magical market in Dwaraka to gift the Kauravas and their relatives who come to the marriage with valuable gifts. Meanwhile, back in the forest, the real Sasirekha is married to Abhimanyu. When all goes to plan, Ghatothkacha reveals his true identity and further unveils the true colours of Shakuni and Kauravas. At this point, Sasirekha's parents are convinced of her marriage and decide to bless the newlyweds back at the forest.A painter leaves his family to paint the homes of his rich clients. A lonely, ruthless samurai falls in love with the painter's wife and rapes her. He continues on to murder the painter and his servants. From the afterlife, the painter seeks revenge on the samurai and saves his wife and newborn child.Set in the Edwardian era, three friends, George, Harris and J decide to escape from their respective woman troubles in London by embarking on a relaxing trip on a boat down the River Thames taking with them their dog Montmorency. They enjoy a number of adventures as they follow the river westwards, and become involved with three wealthy young ladies they meet on the way.In a small town in the south of France, Dr. Valerio is committed to caring for the poor. His young wife, Angela, cannot stand the place and wants to move to Nice, but the doctor does not want to leave before finding a replacement. Valerio is sympathetic to the working poor of the area, particularly Sandro, a farm worker who maintains the trees belonging to Gorzone, a rich industrialist and the primary employer in the town. Angela becomes ill and wanders the town's slum quarters in a delirium, ultimately leaving the town for a holiday without her husband. The Commissioner of Police takes Valerio to a mountain village in order to sign medical reports for a little girl who had been raped by her grandfather. There, Valerio meets Clara, a rich young widow. He considers a menage a trois, but is rebuffed. Meanwhile, Sandro is dismissed by Gorzone, forcing Sandro and his tubercular wife, Magda, to leave their home, a move that results in Magda's death. Distracted by grief, Sandro shoots Gorzone. Valerio hides Sandro from the police, a decision that results in Angela leaving the doctor for good. Sandro leaves Valerio's protection and, when cornered by the authorities, shoots himself. Valerio refuses to shake hands with the Commissioner, and the last scene shows Valerio and Clara walking away at night, arm in arm on the quayside, followed by some of Sandro's cronies.Susanne is the owner of a model agency in Stockholm. Doris, her most popular model, has an argument with her fiancé, Palle, just before she goes with Susanne to Gothenburg to be photographed in a new collection. In Gothenburg Doris meets an aging Consul, who sees in her a striking resemblance to his wife, now in a mental hospital. The Consul gratifies Doris’s desires for fine clothes and jewelry, and the two spend a strenuously exciting day together, until his daughter arrives and ruthlessly exposes her father’s egotism. Susanne has meanwhile telephoned her ex-lover Henrik and arranged a rendezvous with him. Henrik reluctantly visits her. They make love and are planning to resume their relationship when his wife arrives. She proves conclusively that Henrik is a weakling. Disillusioned, Susanne returns with Doris to Stockholm, where Doris’s fiancé waits.A King's  mistress  usurps his power and casts him adrift in a river. The two princes of the kingdom  are denied their birthright. The deposed king wanders the country in the guise of a sage. The younger prince  leads a popular rebellion against the usurper-queen and restores the kingdom to his father.The educational year is ending and Jérôme, a medical student, is on the point of leaving on holiday to Brittany with friends. However he remains pensive and regrets not having approached Claudia, an Italian student, who must leave France the same evening. So he decides to go to her hotel. The two young people acknowledge their mutual love and Jérôme accompanies Claudia to the station and promises to join her in Tuscany the next month, as soon as he finds enough money. In Tuscany, Jérôme realizes that he seriously loves Claudia and proposes marriage to her. The two lovers return to their hotel but the city is agitated: war has just been declared. Jérôme learns from the consulate that he has been mobilised and that he must return. Separated by the war and no longer able to correspond, Jérôme loses track of Claudia. He will try to forget her by remaking his life, but haunted by the memory of this lost love, he will not succeed. Eleven years later, he leaves for Italy to try to find her, but time has passed…The setting of the story is early 1950s New York City and focuses around the early television community. Jerry Biffle  is the star of the Blendo Soap Program. He has been invited to participate in an autograph-signing party for his new book at an important department store. Jerry meets Sally Peters , one of the department store models, and makes her part of his TV troupe. As part of his campaign to court Sally, Jerry gets Cliff Lane , the tenor of his TV company, to sing to her over the phone. When Sally and Cliff meet, they fall in love, with Biffle ignorant of the complications. Biffle engineers a big publicity wedding between Cliff and "a girl," not knowing that Sally is the girl. To further complicate his life, Jerry learns that he is about to lose his sponsor. The publicity elopement between his girl and Cliff almost shatters his entire career and life. When it seems that his whole world will cave in, Jerry's sponsor comes up with a new format for the Blendo program and, as far as Jerry is concerned, the day is saved.{{plot}} The film begins with Serafina Delle Rose  proudly praising her husband Rosario  to her female neighbours in a shopping market, before revealing that she is pregnant with their second child. When she goes home with her shopping she finds Rosario asleep in bed and whispers to him that she is with child. Emerging from his room she finds a young woman named Estelle  at the door who wants her to make a shirt for her lover from some expensive silk material she has bought. It transpires that Rosario is her lover as, when Serafina is out of the room, she steals a photograph of him from Serafina's sideboard before departing. Later that night Rosario is out working  and Serafina is busy working on the shirt for her customer. The women of the neighbourhood discover that Rosario has been killed in a road accident whilst trying to speed away from the police; it transpires that he was smuggling something illegal. When Serafina discovers her beloved husband's demise she collapses, and later the local doctor informs her daughter Rosa  and the women of the neighbourhood that Serafina has miscarried. Three years later Serafina is a recluse, having withdrawn from the world. She has allowed her appearance to deteriorate. That particular day is the day of the high school graduation and the women of the neighbourhood are impatiently banging on her front door for their daughters' graduation dresses. Rosa is also begging for her graduation dress from her mother, but Serafina has locked them—along with the rest of Rosa's clothes—away. As all the girls are late for school, Rosa's teacher turns up in the neighbourhood demanding to know what is keeping them. She goes to the Delle Rose household and eventually makes Serafina see sense and she hands all the girls their dresses. After much thought Serafina decides to attend her daughter's graduation and, comically, tries to get ready. During this time two women arrive asking if Serafina can quickly mend their bandanas for a festival they are going to. Serafina reluctantly does so, but is appalled by their talk of men and reprimands them however. However one of the women, Bessie , takes offence and decides to inform Serafina that her late husband was no saint; quite the contrary he was having an affair. Serafina does not go to the graduation ceremony after this revelation, but instead sits alone in the dark until Rosa comes home. She is infuriated when Rosa introduces her to her new boyfriend Jack Hunter  and insists that she will never see him again. Rosa then runs away with Jack in disgust at her mother's actions, before a van driver named Alvaro  turns up asking for lodgings. A reluctant Serafina allows him to stay for the night and the two proceed to get drunk. As Alvaro flatters Serafina with compliments she begins to talk of her late husband, mentioning that he used to have a rose tattooed on his chest. Later that night Alvaro returns, having got a rose tattooed on his chest. Serafina is disgusted and goes to throw him out, stating that he is dishonouring Rosario's memory. Seeing the look of discomfort on his face at the mention of her late husband's name, Serafina goes to question him if he knew Rosario or not. Alvaro is uncomfortable, and Serafina goes on to ask him if he was unfaithful to her. When he does not respond she throws him out. Serafina visits Father De Leo and asks if anyone had confessed about having an affair with Rosario. The priest insists that he cannot divulge this, but the look on his face says it all and she persists. She is thrown out of the chapel, and is mocked by her female neighbours. Depressed, Serafina meets Alvaro and insists that he drive her to a club her husband used to attend. Once there she meets Estelle who asked her to make a silk shirt for her lover and guesses correctly that she was having an affair with him. Estelle confesses that she was having an affair with Rosario before proceeding to show Serafina the rose tattooed on her chest as a symbol of her love for Rosario. Returning home she smashes Rosario's urn containing his ashes and gives Alvaro the silk shirt that the woman had wanted made for Rosario, before inviting him to spend the night. Alvaro turns up hours later at the Delle Rose household intoxicated and, mortified by her actions, Serafina leaves him in a drunken stupor and retires to bed. That night Rosa returns home and falls asleep on the sofa. As Alvaro awakes from his drunken stupor he sees Serafina's beautiful daughter lying there asleep and moves over to kiss her. As he does Rosa wakes up and screams, before confronting her mother as to why there is a strange man in the house. Serafina gets rid of him, but the following morning she finds him on top of a telephone pole outside her house begging for her forgiveness. Serafina and Rosa are extremely embarrassed and Serafina refuses to leave the house in order to make him come down, much to Rosa's frustration. At that moment Jack arrives and asks Serafina if he can marry Rosa. Serafina is stunned, but seeing that this is what Rosa wants she gives them her consent and they leave to be married. Serafina then calls Alvaro down from the telephone pole before declaring in front of her neighbours that they have to pick up from where they left off the night before. As they enter the house Serafina puts on the radio whilst Alvaro pours them a drink and they laugh together. Much of the film was shot on location in Key West, Florida, although the setting is not specifically mentioned in the film. The house featured in the film stands to this day and is known, appropriately, as the "Rose Tattoo House". The premier of the movie was held at the Hotel Astor, New York on December 2, 1955, with the attendance of Arthur Miller, Marlon Brando, Marilyn Monroe and Jayne Mansfield among other celebrities.Rosalind Dee  is a cafe singer striving to enter high society. Rosalind stumbles upon a large amount of money by lucky means. Rosalind forms a partnership with gambling-club owners Wade Evans  and Cyril Mace , building the establishment into a gathering place for the elite. Along the way, she attempts to rekindle a romance with randy playboy Doug Duryea , but she is soon lured in by Rev. Kelly Rand  who comes to save Rosalind from her troubles.In the middle of New York's theater district sits Father Conroy's parish, where entertainers often attend his services. His parishioners include Holly LeMaise, whose dad Harry was an old vaudevillian. Holly takes a job as a showgirl in a nightclub to pay the medical bills when her father falls ill. The featured entertainer at the club is Tony Vincent, a playboy whose romantic advances Holly wards off. But soon she develops feelings for him. Father Conroy befriends the former songwriter Phil Stanley, whose alcoholism and hard times have left him playing piano in Tony's act. The priest annoys Tony by seemingly interfering with Holly's personal life and now Phil's as well. Tony lands a job at a Miami hotel and tries to manipulate Holly into going along. As a charity event, Father Conroy organizes a big show that will be on nationwide TV. Tony, having lost the Miami job, desperately wants to perform on it. To prove his true intent to Holly, the priest offers to book Tony on television provided he tells Holly their relationship is over. Holly is shocked when he accepts. When it's his turn to sing, Tony's guilty conscience gives him a change of heart. He gives up his time on the TV show to Phil, who has written a new song. Father Conroy is pleased, and soon finds himself officiating at Holly's and Tony's wedding.Young Robert "Bibi" Bonnard  grows up in Ottawa, Ontario with his parents, Jacques  and Susan , and his roving rogue of a grandfather, Grandpere . Across the street is his uncle, amiable drunkard Louis , who ignores the complaints of his hard-working dressmaker wife Felice  and her worries about the future of their daughter Yvonne. Louis agitates about meeting his prospective son-in-law, Alfred Grattin, a teetotaler bank clerk who wishes to marry Yvonne. Next-door neighbour and schoolmate Peggy O'Hare  has a crush on Bibi, but he is as yet too young to understand. On his birthday, Bibi is taken to see the vaudeville acts at the theatre where his violinist/ conductor father works. During the magic act, the Great Gaspari tries to steal a kiss from Mignonette Chappuis , the assistant he is in the process of sawing in half. She storms offstage and quits. Jacques offers her a job as a maid, which she gladly accepts. Bibi is intrigued, but a little confused about his feelings for the new addition to the household. Equally fascinated, but not at all perplexed as to why is another unexpected arrival, Uncle Desmonde , a traveling salesman and notorious ladies' man. He has been summoned back to take the place of the recently deceased sales manager, though he informs his employer it is only until a replacement can be found. Uncle Desmonde starts courting Mignonette, but though she is attracted to him, she tells him she is fed up with living on the road and wants to settle down. He shows her the picture of a lovely house he expects to inherit, weakening her resistance. Meanwhile, Peggy becomes jealous of Bibi's attentions to Mignonette. Bibi has already gotten into trouble for bringing "La Vie Parisienne" to school. When a dirty picture is found by the principal, Mr. Frye, Peggy falsely claims she saw Bibi draw it. Bibi denies it, angering Frye. He straps Bibi on the hand three times, and tells him it will be repeated every day until he confesses. When the adult Bonnards find out, they see Frye and straighten him out, though with great difficulty. When they return in triumph, Desmonde discovers that Mignonette has quit after finding out that he lied about the house, and because she is under the impression that he has been sneaking into her bedroom and stealing kisses when she is asleep. Bibi confesses that he is the guilty party. Desmonde then realizes that Mignonette is not like all of his other women. He finds her and they become engaged. The adults explain Peggy's behavior to Bibi. To Peggy's delight, Bibi forgives her and makes her his girl. Then his voice breaks.In 1889, young Englishwoman Vicky Barton  and her brother Johnny  arrive in Paris to see the Exposition Universelle. This is Vicky's first time in Paris, and after checking into a hotel, she drags her tired brother to dinner and the famous Moulin Rouge. She finally retires for the night, while Johnny has a late-night drink. When English painter George Hathaway  drops off his girlfriend, Rhoda O'Donovan , and her mother  at the hotel, he asks Johnny for change for a 100 franc note to pay a carriage driver; Johnny loans him 50 francs and gives him his name and room number. The next morning, Vicky finds a blank wall where Johnny's room used to be. When she questions hotel owner and manager Madame Hervé , the latter claims she arrived alone. The room number now adorns the common bathroom. Madame Hervé's brother Narcisse  and the day porter  back up her story. Frantic, Vicky goes to see the British consul , followed secretly by Narcisse. She has no proof of her brother's existence, so the consul can only suggest she find a witness, Nina , the hotel maid who attended her. Nina had informed her that she was going up in a balloon with her boyfriend at the Exposition that day, so the consul takes her there. Tragically, she is too late. Before she can talk to Nina, the balloon ascends, bursts into flames, and plummets to the ground, killing the two passengers. Vicky tries the French police commissaire . He questions Madame Hervé and her brother, but can find nothing amiss in their story. Since her room has been reserved for only two nights, Vicky has to leave the hotel. Madame Hervé offers her a ticket home to England, which she is forced to accept, as she has little money left. However, unbeknownst to either party, Rhoda O'Donovan has been asked by George Hathaway to deliver a letter containing his loan repayment to Johnny. Not finding his room, Rhoda slips the envelope under Vicky's door, where she finds it. Vicky goes to see George. When he confirms having met her brother, she bursts into tears. He offers his assistance. George notices there are six balconies, but only five rooms on the floor, and finds the missing hotel room, the entrance having been covered over to be part of the wall. Under questioning by the police, Madame Hervé reveals where Johnny has been taken. It turns out that he became sick with the Black Plague during the night. The news would have been disastrous for the Exposition, so he was secretly taken away to a hospital. George brings along Doctor Hart , who tells Vicky her brother has a chance of living.Idle Tom Ramsay  continually borrows from his hard-working brother George . George later puts up the Ramsay estate for sale so he can buy out his business partner, despite Tom's protests. Shortly afterwards, George is approached by car dealer Philip Cronshaw ([[Peter Graves , who notifies him that Tom has stolen one of his automobiles. To avoid a scandal, George pays for it. However, it was a fraud; Cronshaw and Tom split George's money. While squandering his ill-gotten funds, Tom discovers that Gertrude Wilmot , the third richest woman in the world, is staying at the same seaside resort. He becomes acquainted with her, then  frankly admits that he is a scoundrel attracted to her great wealth. Surprisingly, this approach works and they become engaged. Tom pays George back for all the money he took over the years. When George complains about the injustice of Tom not having to work for his good fortune, Tom mentions that Gertrude is buying the family estate.  English spinster Molly Reid  takes a sea cruise to Jamaica. To the annoyance of the other passengers and the crew, she talks non-stop on the outbound voyage. When the captain ([[Noel Purcell  learns that she will be returning on the same ship, he decides that something must be done to save the sanity of the crew. The ship's doctor  suggests setting her up with a suitor. Pierre , the steward, is ordered to keep Molly occupied. The plan works; the crew's ears are spared, though Molly tells Pierre that she knows he is not in love with her.  In Monte Carlo, Stella  and Syd Cotman  have a very successful nightclub act. She dives from a great height into a small, shallow tank of water. However, a visit by Flora  and Carlo Penezzi ([[Martin Miller  unnerves her. The older Penezzis used to have a similarly dangerous act: Flora was shot out of a cannon. Stella and Syd argue when she refuses to dive a second time each night, forcing Syd to change their contract with the nightclub manager. In desperation, Stella takes their life savings and attempts to win enough at the gambling tables so she can quit, but loses everything. Syd is infuriated when he finds out. With no choice, she goes on with the act, even though she is terrified that she will eventually be killed. When Flora tells Syd how frightened his wife is, he rushes up the tower to stop her. But she, seeing his concern, dives safely into the tank.A young Hungarian student  and a 17-year old French girl, Anne-Claire  meet in a park in Paris. She calls him "Monpti" . They fall in love and enjoy a happy time. Anne-Claire claims to come from a wealthy family, but Monpti finds out that she actually comes from poor circumstances. Angered at having been deceived by Anne-Claire, he tells her off on the street and leaves her standing there. As she runs after his taxi, she is hit by another car. Lying in the hospital, Monpti promises he will marry her, but Anne-Claire dies a little while later from her injuries. At the same time, the story of a second couple is told, whose relationship stands in stark contrast to the main story.Rick Belrow Livingston , in love with self-obsessed Broadway star Lisa , is sentenced to 30 days in jail for speeding through a small town. Quite by accident, he meets the daughter of the judge, Cindy Kimbell . He persuades her to let him out for one night, so that he can visit Lisa on the premise he is seeing his "poor sick mother"  on her birthday. After tracking him down and bringing him back to town, Cindy starts to fall for Livingston, but Dr. Schlemmer  wants her to marry his son ([[Bobby Van  even though he desperately wants a career on Broadway.Zamindar of a village has no children and adopts a boy from an Orphanage. The boy now grown as Anandarao  returns to the village after higher education. Zamindar while dying handover the estate affairs to Ramaiah , who gains good reputation and prestige. His has a son Satyam  and a daughter Sundaramma . Anandrao feels jealous about Ramaiah. Chalapathi  and Pitchaiah  adds to his jealousy. He insults Ramaiah and stops the donation programme running on the name of Zamindar. Satyam as an unemployee joins as Bus conductor and Ramaiah dies of helplessness. Anandrao purchases the Bus and dismisses Satyam from the job. Chalapathi insults Sundaramma and angered Satyam beats him and goes to jail. Chalapathi and Pitchaiah steals the adoptation papers from Anandrao and tries to dismiss him. He joins the Annadana Samajam. This brings about The Change  in him and repents for the injustice done to the Ramaiah family. Sundaramma recognizes the change in his mildset and started loving him. Satyam recognizes their love affair between them, and recollects the documents from Pitchaiah and provides them in the court. Chalapathi and Pitchaiah are arrested and Anandrao and Sundaramma married happily.Joanna , a New Orleans woman, arrives at the South American cocoa plantation to meet her new husband, plantation owner Christopher Leiningen , whom she has married by proxy. Leiningen is cold and remote to her, rebuffing all her attempts to make friends with him. She's beautiful, independent, and arrives ready to be his stalwart helpmate; however, no one has told him she's a widow. He rejects her. As she awaits the boat to take her back to the United States, they learn that legions of army ants - the Marabunta - will strike in a few days' time. Leiningen refuses to give up the home he fought so hard to create. Instead of evacuating, he resolves to make a stand against this indomitable natural predator. Joanna joins the fight to save the plantation; their courage and his probable loss of all he's worked for may crack his resolve to send her away.Joe, Al and Davy are in Paris, three sailors on a furlough. They see the sights, but have their sights set on getting to know three girls, including Colette d'Avril, a nightclub singer, and Suzzane Sorrel, who's just had her purse snatched. Each is in for a surprise. Joe finds out that Colette is actually Janie Mitchell, a girl from Brooklyn. She also is raising several orphans at home with financial aid from a male benefactor. Al, meanwhile, learns that Suzzane is actually a high-society lady who lives in a mansion. Complications occur when Suzzane makes a play for Joe, giving him a kiss that is photographed and appears in the next day's newspapers. Janie isn't happy about that, but is grateful when the sailors organize a fund-raiser for the kids after her benefactor's death. All the boys need to get back to their ship, but promise they'll be back.In France just prior to the French Revolution, Queen Marie Antoinette  asks her cousin Noel, the Marquis de Maynes , to uncover the identity of "Marcus Brutus", a dangerous pamphleteer rousing hatred of the aristocracy. Meanwhile, André Moreau , a nobleman's bastard, kidnaps his beloved Lenore  to keep her from marrying another man. Afterwards, Moreau learns that his father is the Count de Gavrillac. While traveling to meet his parent, Moreau runs into Aline de Gavrillac , the Queen's ward, when her carriage breaks down the road. They are strongly attracted to each other, but Moreau's ardor suddenly cools when he learns that she is his half-sister. He hides that information from her. By chance, de Maynes encounters Marcus Brutus, who turns out to be Moreau's best friend, Philippe de Valmorin . An expert swordsman, de Maynes provokes de Valmorin into a duel, then toys with his inexperienced opponent before finally dispatching him. Enraged, Moreau attacks, but does no better than his dead friend. After de Maynes easily disarms him several times, Moreau chooses discretion over valor and flees for his life, vowing to kill de Maynes the same way he slew de Valmorin. Chased by de Maynes's henchmen led by the Chevalier de Chabrillaine , Moreau hides out in the commedia dell'arte troupe in which Lenore performs. Forced to disguise himself as the character Scaramouche, he discovers a hidden talent for acting. Burning for revenge, Moreau seeks out de Maynes' personal fencing instructor, Doutreval , and trains diligently in secret for weeks, while also performing with the troupe. However, de Maynes interrupts one such training session and they fight for a second time. Moreau is still overmatched. He is saved only when Aline and Doutreval unexpectedly intervene, allowing Moreau to escape. Moreau decides that, to surpass de Maynes, he needs to learn from Doutreval's teacher, Perigore , so he takes the troupe to Paris. There, Dr. Dubuque , a deputy of the new National Assembly, seeks his help. The aristocrats in the assembly are systematically killing off the deputies representing the common people by provoking them into duels. Moreau is not interested, until Dubuque mentions that de Maynes is one of the duelists. Then he eagerly accepts the seat of a deceased deputy. Each day, he shows up at the assembly to challenge de Maynes, only to find his enemy absent on trivial, but official duties arranged by Aline and Lenore working together to protect the man they both love. However, other noblemen are eager to fight the newcomer, but Moreau wins each time, gaining valuable experience in the process. In the meantime, de Maynes becomes engaged to Aline. Overhearing de Maynes' intention to confront Moreau that night, Aline persuades him to take her out instead. As luck would have it, they attend a performance of the troupe and, at last, Moreau has his opportunity for revenge. The two men engage in a spectacular, prolonged duel  that ranges throughout the theater, from the balcony boxes, to the lobby, through the main seats, backstage and finally back on the stage itself. Finally, Moreau has de Maynes at his mercy, but something he cannot explain stays his hand. Later, Moreau learns that his father was not the Count de Gavrillac, but rather the old Marquis de Maynes. The man he almost killed is his half-brother. Then he realizes that he is not related to Aline, so they can be married. .Gaby  is a ballet dancer in 1944 London who runs into corporal Gregory Wendell  while rushing to catch the bus. Greg is mesmerized by Gaby and goes to the ballet to see her on stage, but Gaby wants nothing to do with Greg. He persists, however, and by the end of the day, she agrees to marry him. Before they can marry, however, there is a mountain of red tape and Greg ships out while promising to marry Gaby on his return. When she hears that he has been killed, she makes herself available to anyone who wants her. This version, however, changed the ending even more drastically than the 1940 one, by allowing Gaby and Greg to reunite and live happily ever after.Bonnie and Connie Jones are showgirls, who are also sisters. They are sick and tired of New York as well as not getting anywhere. Quitting Broadway, the sisters decided to travel to Paris to become famous and find true love.Julie Blair  is an American vacationing at a sea-side village in Mexico. She hears stories about a man-eating creature dwelling in the cove. She meets Dr. Baldwin , a marine biologist, and they fall for one another. The mysterious death of a diver interests Julie in investigating, but Baldwin is very skeptical. She sees a giant amoeba rising from the ocean.{{Expand section}} The film tells the story of songwriter Stephen Foster, who wrote the song "Jeanie with the Light Brown Hair" from which the title is taken.Robert Teller visits a seaport in the south of France in the early 1950s. He reflects back to his time in the army shortly after Paris has been liberated. Years earlier, to get away from the barracks and the other soldiers, Robert rents a room in a hotel-restaurant. Lise, an orphan without money or identity papers, seeks a way to escape from the authorities. She asks Robert to pass her off as his wife. Even though he does not inspire trust, she starts to fall in love. Lise tells of the time she was the most happy and secure -- living in a little seaside village. When a black market dragnet lands Lise in jail, she is humiliated because now she  is branded a "criminal for life." By this time, Robert loves her deeply and is willing to marry her. In order to do so, Robert must obtain the approval of his commanding officer, who refuses because the captain thinks he knows what is best for his men. Robert is transferred away from Paris immediately. He escapes, but is arrested. Lise now feels even more abandoned because Robert does not show up for their wedding. His thoughts returning to the present, Robert runs into his old captain . He hears the captain tell his wife what a troublemaker Robert was back then and how he "rescued" Robert from the clutches of a French girl. The captain says, "Well, I bet you haven't seen her since the war." Robert replies, "You are right. They pulled her body out of the river shortly after I was transferred."Cory, a poor Chicago kid with a penchant for gambling, gets a job at a posh Wisconsin resort as a busboy. He takes a liking to glamorous socialite Abby Vollard, who is toying with the affections of rich boyfriend Alex Wyncott. Sabotaging her motorboat as a ploy to get close to her, Cory swims out to help, only to find Abby's kid sister Jen on the boat instead. She volunteers to assist his effort to win Abby's heart. Abby mistakenly believes him to be a guest at the resort. She invites him on a trip to New York, but when Cory tries to raise money at a poker game, a guest named Caldwell cleans him out. Abby is offended when she discovers that Cory's only a busboy and walks away for good. A year later, now in Reno trying to change his luck, Cory crosses paths again with Caldwell, only he turns out to actually be a professional gambler known as Biloxi. An ulcer prevents him from playing, so Caldwell partners with Cory, making him his proxy at the table. Together they return to Chicago when gangster Ruby offers them a chance to run an illegal casino. Cory sends an invitation to the grand opening to Abby, then slips away with her after fixing it so her fiance Alex can gamble and win. They begin a secret affair. Cory's behavior grows cruel and calculating, more so after he proposes to Abby and is coldly turned down. Biloxi is disgusted with him and breaks their partnership. Alex, who is now losing heavily at the tables, becomes aware that Abby is carrying on with Cory behind his back. He tips off the cops, who raid Ruby's gambling house. Cory tries to flee, but Alex shoots him in the arm. Ashamed of his behavior, Cory declines to prosecute. He goes to the airport, where an older and more beautiful Jen unexpectedly shows up and offers to come along.Maitre André Gobillot , a distinguished lawyer in his mid 50s, successfully defends a beautiful young woman, Yvette Maudet , who has committed a robbery. In the process, he falls in love with her, putting his reputation and marriage at risk, but she is not true to him, and ends up being murdered by her jealous lover Mazzetti .In Paris during 1890, 104-year-old Georges Bonnet  is a sculptor who maintains a youthful appearance by regularly murdering women and using their parathyroid glands as an elixir to ward off the signs of age. When Bonnet requires a vital surgery to be undertaken he asks his old colleague Prof. Ludwig Weiss  to perform it. He declines and Bonnet then blackmails Pierre Gerard  into performing the operation by endangering the life of Janine Dubois , a young lady both Bonnet and Gerard are romantically interested in.In 1894, poor but arrogant Brant Royle  returns to his hometown of Kingsmont, North Carolina, to settle his recently deceased uncle's estate. Years before, he had been driven out by powerful tobacco plantation owner Major Singleton  for daring to fall in love with Singleton's daughter Margaret . When Royle stops a runaway carriage bearing Margaret, she gives him a cool reception, but his ardor remains undiminished. The only one glad to see him is Sonia Kovac , who has always made it plain she loves him. Upon inheriting her mother's house, she prospered by turning it into a bordello. Meanwhile, inventor John Barton  is unable to interest Major Singleton in financing the building of his revolutionary cigarette rolling machine. Singleton and all the other growers are cigar men. After Barton sees the hatred between Singleton and Royle, he approaches Royle. With only a few dollars to his name, Royle gets the money Barton needs from Sonia, making her a partner. The first man he hires is Chris Malley , a medicine showman. Barton's invention produces cigarettes at a fraction of the cost of hand rolling, and Royle's company grows by leaps and bounds. One by one, Royle destroys the plantation owners, until only Singleton is left. Finally, Royle shows the Major that he has gained control of Singleton's company, having bought up all the shares that Singleton has been selling. Royle offers to give them back ... as a wedding present. When Singleton discovers that Margaret is willing to marry Royle despite not loving him, he challenges the upstart to a duel. Royle declines, but Singleton shoots and slightly wounds the unarmed man. His public disgrace and loss of honor leads him to commit suicide. Margaret marries Royle and they honeymoon abroad. Chris Malley, now Royle's second in command, discovers that Margaret has been selling millions of dollars worth of stock that her husband gave her and that she also gave Barton, forced out of the company by Royle, the idea to leak information to the Attorney General, leading to monopoly charges. When Royle confronts Margaret, she tells him she had been scheming and planning to bring him down ever since her father killed himself. Realizing too late that he has alienated all his true friends, he apologizes to Sonia and leaves town.A melodrama about a housemaid who bears her employer's illegitimate daughter. The daughter visits her father on his deathbed, unable to tell him she is his daughter.Synopsis from {{cite web}}A composer, Richard Morton experiences blackouts and cannot account for his actions. He seems to recall a woman's screams and a conversation with his wife, Emily, but it's all a blur. Morton goes to see his friend John Harkness and is introduced to a film actress, Julie Bannon, and is attracted to her. He also apparently has made a date with Lisa Muller, who is angry when Morton shows up two hours late. He loses his temper and threatens her. Julie goes out with Morton and attempts to seduce him, but something in him resists. He returns to Lisa and begins to menace her again, only to suffer another blackout. When he wakes up, Morton is in his own home by himself and isn't sure where he has been or what he has done. He phones Lisa and learns she is all right. Concerned, he contacts Julie as well, but she also has not been harmed. Morton is glad that his violent temper did not cause him to lose control and that the woman's screams are all in his mind, until he goes to his own bedroom for the night and finds his wife there, dead.The respectable lives of Professor of English literature Thornton Sayre  and his daughter Carol  are severely disrupted when it is revealed that he was once a matinee idol known as "Dreamboat". His films are being shown on a television show hosted by his former costar Gloria Marlowe . The college administrators clamor for his resignation, but President Mathilda May Coffey  requests and is given discretionary power to decide what to do. In private, she admits to Thornton that she had been one of his biggest fans. Thornton hastily leaves for New York to get an injunction against the show, taking Carol along. There they meet Sam Levitt , the man responsible for airing the movies. While Sam and Gloria try to get Thornton to change his mind, Sam has underling Bill Ainslee  show Carol the sights. Undaunted, Thornton eventually gets his injunction, but his life is irreparably changed. He is fired after spurning Coffey's advances, and Bill and Carol have fallen in love and are planning to get married. When Gloria gloats over his setbacks, Thornton reveals that a major movie studio is interested in reviving his film career. Months later, Bill and Carol attend Thornton's premiere in Sitting Pretty - a real film starring Clifton Webb. Gloria then reveals to Thornton that she has bought his contract and is now his boss.Donna Foster works for publisher John Caine. She agrees to have his niece, Christabel, live with her in San Francisco while attending business school. Christabel proves to be a scheming, socially ambitious woman. She flirts with Donna's fiance, the wealthy Curtis Carey, at a party for Donna's friend, painter Gabriel Broome. She also attracts the interest of aspiring author Nick Bradley. While having her portrait done by Broome, a call from Curtis brings her eagerly to a jeweler, only to discover to her disappointment that he merely seeks her advice in buying Donna an engagement gift. After he purchases an expensive one, Christabel plants a seed in Donna's mind that makes her feel guilty over accepting such a lavish gift, giving an appearance that she's after Curtis's money. Christabel cunningly does likewise to Curtis, convincing him to propose a pre-nuptial agreement. Donna is offended and they break up, which was Christabel's plan all along. She rebuffs a marriage proposal from Nick, whose novel is about to be published by Caine. A romance develops that leads to Christabel's marriage to Curtis and to her becoming a figure of high society. But her true interest is Nick, whom she begins seeing on the side. She slips away from a resort, telling Curtis that she is going to see her aunt Clara. Her lie is exposed by Caine, her uncle, who informs Curtis that the aunt had died while Christabel claimed to be visiting her. Curtis reunites with Donna after sending away Christabel with nothing more than a few expensive furs. She gets into an accident and is hospitalized, but promptly begins a flirtation with her doctor.Nancy Ordway  is an aspiring writer hoping to make it big in New York at the expense of everyone around her, including Broadway producer Peter Denver , who reluctantly lets her use his apartment to work during the day. When Peter's wife Iris  comes home from a trip to find Nancy dead in the bathroom, the assigned detective, Lt. Bruce , soon realizes this assumed suicide is more likely a murder. Everyone Ordway knew is suddenly a suspect, including actress Lottie Marin  and her husband Brian, while a series of flashbacks reveal the plan she was weaving to climb the social ladder.On a riverboat, Mark Fallon impresses fellow gambler Kansas John Polly, who takes him under his wing. The advice includes being wary of the rich and dishonest F. Montague Caldwell, who is caught cheating by Mark in a poker game. Mark makes the acquaintance of attractive Angelique Dureau and her brother, Laurent, who gets in over his head at cards, losing not only all his money to Mark but a priceless necklace belonging to Angelique. She angrily declines when Mark offers to give it back. Caldwell and his men plot an ambush, but Kansas John is able to help Mark get away to New Orleans safely. There he meets the father of Angelique and Laurent, the sophisticated Edmond Dureau, who is impressed by Mark and wishes his daughter would feel differently toward him. Angelique instead weds a banker, George Elwood. Mark builds a successful casino. He and Edmond also give a helpful hand to Ann Conant, the daughter of an unlucky gambler who committed suicide. Laurent falls for Ann, but she is smitten with Mark. A duel is demanded, resulting in Laurent dishonorably firing prematurely. He misses, then has his life spared when Mark refuses to shoot back. Angelique's new banker husband skips town with everyone's money after a scandal is uncovered. Mark is once again penniless, so the only way he can think of to replenish his funds is to return to his old life as a gambler. Angelique realizes her true feelings and asks to go along.A brilliant scientist, Bill Beck, ends up happily married to Julie, his doctor's receptionist. Five years after their wedding, the same doctor treats Julie for a heart condition that she decides to keep secret from her husband, who is doing serious work as a physicist developing guided missiles. Not wishing him to be left alone if she dies, Julie suggests they adopt a child. An orphan called Hitty  has been rejected many times, but Julie takes a shine to her. Bill, a pragmatist, doesn't understand the little girl's fantasy world. And he is angered when Hitty, meaning well, erases a chalkboard, wiping out hours of Bill's hard work. Bill's superior at work, Grant Allan, urges him to give the girl more patience and time, but the Becks believe it could be best that Hitty be returned to the orphanage. Julie's heart gives out. After her death, Hitty tries to win over her heartbroken foster father, but Bill is inconsolable. Hitty is returned to the orphanage. She goes missing one night and is caught in a storm. Bill and Grant hurry there to assist in a search, and when they find Hitty and save her, Bill realizes he never wants to be apart from her again.Tarzan and Jane are spending some time by a river when they hear a scream. A local tribal girl has gone missing, and the tribes people believe this is due to some evil spirit. Tarzan and Jane quickly realize the girl has been kidnapped. The kidnappers are Lionians, a "lost" culture of Caucasians who have a culture similar to ancient Egypt and who worship lions. The Lionians are kidnapping girls throughout the region to bring back to their city deep in the jungle. But they have brought a terrible disease with them which can kill within hours. Tarzan seeks the help of Dr. Campbell, who has a serum that can both cure the disease as well as vaccinate against it. After saving the local tribe, Dr. Campbell and Tarzan  head for the Lionian city. Meanwhile, Dr. Campbell's native assistant, the buxom and blonde Lola, has fallen for Tarzan. Jane and Lola have a fight, after which both women are captured by a Lionian raiding party. Tarzan and the others are repeatedly attacked by other tribes and the Lionians as they search for the Lionian city. Neil suffers a broken leg, and is left behind. Dr. Campbell unknowingly drops his bottle of serum, and although Neil discovers it later as he follows Tarzan and Campbell. Meanwhile, Jane and Lola are taken to the Lionian capital. The Lionian king has recently died of the horrible disease, leaving the Prince in charge. He is easily swayed by the evil counselor, Sengo, who has persuaded the Prince to indulge every lust for food, drink, and women to assuage his grief. Furthermore, the illness has killed many Lionian women, leading the Lionians to capture local beauties as concubines. Lola refuses the Prince's advances, and is brutally whipped. When Jane defends her, both women are entombed alive in the dead king's stone mausoleum. When the Lionian High Priest challenges Sengo, Sengo convinces the Prince that the priest is a rebel and should be fed to the lions. Tarzan arrives at the Lionian city with Campbell. The Prince's son has fallen ill with the disease, and Sengo blames Tarzan and Neil. Their deaths are ordered, but Tarzan escapes and leads the Lionians on a merry chase through their own city. Tarzan hides inside the dead king's sarcophagus, but becomes entombed in the stone mausoleum as well. Luckily, Tarzan discovers where Jane and Lola have been sealed up as well, and frees them. Tarzan calls for help, and an elephant breaks down the tomb's door to free Tarzan, Jane, and Lola. Tarzan holds off the Lionians, and manages to throw Sengo into the pit with the lions. Meanwhile, Neil arrives with the serum and the Prince's son is cured. The Prince, realizing how wrong he has been, orders the High Priest, Tarzan, all of Tarzan's friends, and all the slave girls freed.Andy Schaeffer is a spoiled mama's boy who usually gets his way. He breezes through college while girlfriend Susan Daniels studies hard while also working at a job to pay for her education. She isn't sure where their relationship is going. Where it's going for Andy is the Army, because his grades have become so poor at school, he's being drafted. Andy reports for basic training at Fort Ord, making it clear to everybody there that he'd rather be anyplace else.In a theatre where auditions are being held for a new musical production, the director, Bernie Dodd, watches a number performed by fading star Frank Elgin and suggests he be cast. This is met with strong opposition from Cook, the show's producer. Bernie insists on the down-on-his-luck Elgin, who is living in a modest apartment with his wife Georgie, a cold and bitter woman who has aged far beyond her years. They are grateful, though not entirely certain Elgin can handle the work. Based on comments Elgin makes about her privately, Bernie assumes that Georgie is the reason for Frank's career decline. He strongly criticizes her, first behind her back and eventually to her face. What he doesn't know is that the real reason Elgin's career has ended is the death of their five-year-old son Johnny, who was hit by a car while in the care of his father. Mealy-mouthed to the director's face, Elgin is actually a demanding alcoholic who is totally dependent on his wife. Bernie mistakenly blames her for everything that happens during rehearsals, including Elgin's requests for a dresser and a run-of-the-show contract. He believes Georgie to be suicidal and a drunk, when it is actually Frank who is both. Humiliated when he learns the truth, Bernie realizes that behind his hatred of Georgie was a strong attraction to her. He kisses her and falls in love. Elgin succeeds in the role on opening night. Afterward he demands respect from the producer that he and his wife had not been given previously. At a party to celebrate, Bernie believes that now that Elgin has recovered his self-respect and stature, Georgie will be free to leave him. But she stands by her husband instead.Young French cello student Ariane Chavasse  eavesdrops on a conversation between her father, widowed private detective Claude Chavasse, and his client, "Monsieur X". After learning of his wife's daily trysts with American business magnate Frank Flannagan , Monsieur X announces he will shoot Flannagan later that day. Claude is nonchalant, regretting only the business he will lose . When Ariane cannot get the police to intervene , she decides to warn him herself. Ariane is in time. When Monsieur X breaks into Flannagan's hotel suite, he finds Flannagan with Ariane, not his wife . Flannagan is intrigued by the mysterious girl, who refuses to give him any information about herself, even her name. He resorts to calling her "thin girl". She has no romantic history but pretends to be a femme fatale to interest him, and soon falls in love with the considerably older man. She agrees to meet him the next afternoon, because her orchestral practice is in the evenings . She comes with mixed feelings, but ends up becoming his lover for the evening until his plane leaves. Her father, who has tried unsuccessfully to protect her from knowing about the tawdry domestic-surveillance details in his files, notices her change of mood but has no idea that it proceeds from one of his cases. After a year, Flannagan returns to Paris. The two meet by chance at an opera, and start seeing each other again. This time, when he persists in his questioning, she makes up a long list of prior imaginary lovers based on her father's files . Flannagan gradually goes from being amused to being tormented by the possible comparisons, but is unsure whether they are real. When he encounters a still-apologetic Monsieur X, the latter recommends Claude Chavasse to him, and thus Flannagan hires Ariane's own father to investigate. It does not take Chavasse long to realize the mystery woman is Ariane. He informs his client that his daughter fabricated her love life. He tells Flannagan that she is a little fish that he should throw back, since she is serious and he wants to avoid serious relationships. Frank decides to leave Paris, pretending to be on his way to meet former lovers. At the station, as Ariane runs along the platform beside his departing train, with her femme-fatale facade cracking as her love shows through, Frank changes his mind and sweeps her up in his arms onto the train. In the American version, Chavasse reports that they marry.On the French Riviera, Cécile  is a decadent young girl who lives with her rich playboy father, Raymond . Anne , a mature and cultured friend of Raymond's late wife, arrives at Raymond's villa for a visit. Cécile is afraid that Anne will disrupt the undisciplined way of life that Cécile and her father have shared. Despite his promises of fidelity to Anne, Raymond cannot give up his playboy life. Helped by Elsa , Raymond's young and flighty mistress, Cécile does her best to break up the relationship with Anne. The combination of the daughter's disdain and the father's rakishness drives Anne to a tragic end.Set during World War II, the story focuses on Carmen Jones, a vixen who works in a parachute factory in North Carolina. When she is arrested for fighting with a co-worker who reported her for arriving late for work, foreman Sgt. Brown assigns young soldier Joe to deliver her to the authorities, much to the dismay of Joe's fiancée Cindy Lou, who had agreed to marry him during his leave. While en route, Carmen suggests she and Joe stop for a meal and a little romance, and his refusal intensifies her determination to seduce him. When their army jeep ends up in the river, she suggests they spend the night at her grandmother's house nearby and continue their journey by train the following day, and that night Joe succumbs to Carmen's advances. The next morning he awakens to find a note in which she says although she loves him she is unable to deal with time in jail and is running away. Joe is locked in the stockade for allowing his prisoner to escape, and Cindy Lou arrives just as a rose from Carmen is delivered to him, prompting her to leave abruptly. Having found work in a Louisiana nightclub, Carmen awaits his release. One night champion prizefighter Husky Miller enters with an entourage and introduces himself to Carmen, who expresses no interest in him. Husky orders his manager Rum Daniels to offer her jewelry, furs, and an expensive hotel suite if she and her friends Frankie and Myrt accompany him to Chicago, but she declines the offer. Just then, Joe arrives and announces he must report to flying school immediately. Angered, Carmen decides to leave with Sgt. Brown, who also has appeared on the scene, and Joe severely beats him. Realizing he will be sentenced to a long prison term for hitting his superior, Joe flees to Chicago with Carmen. While Joe remains hidden in a shabby rented room, Carmen secretly visits Husky's gym to ask Frankie for a loan, but she insists she has no money of her own. Carmen returns to the boarding house with a bag of groceries, and Joe questions how she paid for them. The two argue, and she goes to Husky's hotel suite to play cards with her friends. When she draws the nine of spades, she interprets it as a premonition of impending doom and descends into a quagmire of drink and debauchery. Cindy Lou arrives at Husky's gym in search of Carmen just before Joe appears. Ignoring his former sweetheart, he orders Carmen to leave with him and threatens Husky with a knife when he tries to intervene. Carmen helps Joe escape the military police, but during Husky's big fight, Joe finds Carmen in the crowd and pulls her into a storage room, where he begs her to return to him. When she rebuffs him, Joe strangles Carmen to death just before the police arrive to apprehend him for desertion.The film, based on folkloric beliefs and set in Lapland, centers on the young woman Pirita. In the snowy landscape, Pirita and Aslak meet, and soon marry. It is not long, however, before the shepherd husband wanders off, leaving his wife lonely and heartbroken. In an effort to solve her marital problems, Pirita visits the local shaman, who indeed helps her out, but in the process turns her into a shapeshifting, vampiric reindeer who preys upon the villagers.A B-grade stage actor is convinced to play the role of a butler for a Western family who are about to host President Theodore Roosevelt. The deception is eventually uncovered, and the actor and the family's daughter eventually fall in love.Nightclub singer Ilona Vance  is accused of murder, as she was the last person to see crooked attorney Frank Hobart  alive. Lt. Hargis  attempts to prove her innocence.In 1947, Lora Meredith , a struggling white widow with aspirations of becoming a famous Broadway actress, loses track of her young daughter Susie at the beach , and requests the help of a stranger named Steve Archer  to help her find the girl. Susie is found and looked after by Annie Johnson , a black divorcee with a daughter, Sarah Jane , who is about Susie's age and, unlike her mother, is so light-skinned that she can pass for white, which she does with fierce zeal and fervor. In return for her kindness, Lora takes Annie in temporarily. Despite the fact that Lora cannot afford a nanny, Annie persuades Lora to let her stay and take care of Susie, so that Lora can pursue an acting career. With struggles along the way, Meredith becomes a successful star of stage comedies, with Alan Loomis  as her agent and David Edwards  as her chief playwright. Although Lora had begun a romantic relationship with Steve Archer, the stranger she met at the beach, their courtship falls apart because he rejects her ambition to be a star. Lora's tight focus on her career also prevents her from spending time with her daughter, who sees more of Annie than she does her own mother. Annie and Sarah Jane have their own struggles, as the light-skinned Sarah Jane is in a constant state of turmoil over her identity and steadfastly wants to pass for white. Sarah Jane's anger at being black translates into animosity towards her long-suffering mother. Eleven years later, in 1958, Lora is a highly regarded Broadway star living in a luxurious home in New York. Annie continues to live with her, serving all at once as nanny, housekeeper, confidant and best friend. After rejecting David's latest script , Lora takes a role in a dramatic play. At the show's after-party, she meets Steve, whom she has not seen in a decade. The two slowly begin rekindling their relationship, and Steve is reintroduced to Annie and the now-teenaged Susie  and Sarah Jane . When Lora is signed to star in an Italian motion picture, she leaves Steve to watch after Susie, and the teenager develops an unrequited crush on her mother's boyfriend.  Adolescence has not stopped Sarah Jane from attempting to pass for white: she begins dating a white boy , who severely beats her after learning that her mother is black. Some time later, Sarah Jane passes for white in order to get a job performing at a seedy nightclub, and lies to Annie and tells her she is working at the library. When Annie learns the truth and appears to claim her daughter. Sarah Jane is fired and her subsequent dismissal of her mother's care begins taking a physical and mental toll on Annie. Lora returns from her trip to Italy to find that Sarah Jane has run away from home, and has Steve hire a detective to find her. The detective locates Sarah Jane in California, living as a white woman under an assumed name and working as a chorus girl. Annie, becoming weaker and more depressed by the day, flies out to California to see her daughter one last time and say goodbye. Annie is bedridden upon her return to New York, and Lora and Susie look after her. The issue of Susie's crush on Steve becomes a serious issue when Susie learns that Steve and Lora are to be married, and Lora learns from Annie of Susie's crush on her fiancé. After a confrontation with her mother, Susie decides to go away to school in Denver, Colorado, to forget about Steve. Not long after Susie leaves, however, the now gravely ill Annie passes away, presumably "of a broken heart". In accordance with her last wishes, Annie is given a lavish funeral in a large church, complete with a gospel choir  and a parade-like procession with a horse-drawn hearse. Just before the procession begins, however, a remorseful Sarah Jane tears through the crowd of mourners and throws herself upon her mother's casket, begging forgiveness. Lora takes Sarah Jane to their limousine to join her, Susie, and Steve as the procession slowly travels through the city.For several years, Tom Winters  has been estranged from his wife and their three children, David , Elizabeth , and Robert . The film begins as he returns home from Europe shortly after his wife's death. The children want to stay in the country with their mother's wealthy family, including her parents and her sister Carolyn , but Tom takes them to Washington DC, where he works in the US State Department. The children resent their father's presence, and, at an outdoor concert, Robert runs away. He is found by Cinzia Zaccardi , the daughter of a famous Italian conductor. She too is running away and is enchanted by little "Roberto" and his harmonica. When she brings him back home, Tom offers her a job as a maid, which she eventually accepts. Carolyn, now divorced from her husband, offers Tom and the children her old guest house, which was supposed to be moved to a new foundation. However, on the way there, they encounter the guest house being towed down the road, and the house is smashed by a train in a comical scene in which the tow-truck driver, Angelo Donatello , flirts with Cinzia and accidentally hits Tom's car. Feeling guilty, Angelo sells Tom his leaky, run-down old houseboat. Once moved in, Tom discovers that Cinzia is unable to cook, do laundry, or make coffee. Carolyn and others incorrectly insinuate that Cinzia's relationship with Tom is sexual while she innocently wins the affection of Tom and the children. Meanwhile, Tom spends his evenings with Carolyn, who is secretly in love with him. On the 4th of July, she tries to embarrass Cinzia by selecting a gaudy dress for Tom to buy for her, but Cinzia transforms it into an elegant evening gown. She looks so beautiful in the gown that Angelo, a confirmed womanizer, cancels a date with her out of a fear of falling in love and proposing to her. That evening, Carolyn arrives at the boat with Captain Alan Wilson  and his wife. Alan, who is somewhat drunk, jokes about Cinzia's living arrangement with Tom and slaps her on the behind as she serves drinks. She throws a drink on him in retaliation. Tom asks Alan to leave the boat, but Carolyn takes Alan's side, so Tom asks all three of the guests to leave. David cheers Cinzia up, and they make plans to go fishing, but Tom ruins David's plans by inviting Cinzia to his country club. Once there, Tom reconciles with Carolyn and they agree to get married. As he dances with Cinzia, he finally realizes he is in love with her, but she learns of the proposal, becomes upset, and runs away. Tom catches her, and a little while later, David unhappily finds them kissing in a rowboat. The children don't want Tom to marry Cinzia. David calls her ugly, Robert rejects her as a mother figure, and Elizabeth wants to continue sleeping in Tom's bed with him. Discouraged by this, Cinzia returns home, but Tom follows her, and she gives in after her father  scolds her. The wedding takes place on the houseboat. The children initially refuse to participate in the ceremony, but as it begins, Elizabeth and David join Tom and Cinzia at the altar, and Robert joins them after playing "Here Comes the Bride" on his harmonica.It is only after their nuptials that the Stooges discover that the Noonan brothers took a liking to the wives during the Stooges' recent absence, and vowed to kill our heroes if the weddings occurred. After the Justice of the Peace leaves, the Stooges are stalked by the Noonan brothers, engaging in a slapstick gun battle, and in the end, a fist fight.Stanwyck plays Thelma Jordon, a woman who late one night shows up in the office of married Assistant district attorney Cleve Marshall  with a story about prowlers and burglars. Before Cleve can stop himself, he and Thelma are involved in a love affair. But Thelma is a mysterious woman, and Cleve can't help wondering if she is hiding something. When her rich aunt is found shot, Jordon calls not the police but Marshall, who helps her cover up evidence that may incriminate her. When she emerges as the prime suspect, he sabotages the prosecution. Thelma Jordon is acquitted. Her past, however, has begun to catch up with her.Mrs Julia Sturges , who is at the time estranged from her husband Richard , is traveling first class on the RMS Titanic. Determined to remove her children from her husband Richard's "high society" world in Europe, Julia secretly takes their two children, 17-year-old Annette  and ten-year-old Norman , on the Titanic and plans to raise them in her hometown of Mackinac, Michigan. However, after he learns of her plans, Richard pays a premium to buy a steerage ticket from a Basque immigrant in hopes of intercepting them and taking the children back to Europe. Richard and Julia talk about the custody of Annette and Norman over their first dinner on board. Other passengers include a wealthy woman of working-class origins based on Molly Brown, Maude Young ; a social-climbing snob, Earl Meeker ; a 20-year-old Purdue University tennis player, Gifford Rogers , who falls in love with Annette Sturges; and a priest who has been suspended for alcoholism, George S. Healey . Julia realizes that Annette is old enough to make her own decisions and, therefore, may choose to return to Europe with her father, but she insists on maintaining custody of Norman. This angers Richard, and later, prior to dining at the captain's table, he aggressively confronts Julia. She then reveals to him that Norman is not his biological child but, rather, the result of a one-night stand she had after leaving a party where she was being belittled in the days before Richard had "made [her] over into [his] image." He agrees to relinquish custody of Norman , being cold and distant from them. Richard joins Maude, Earl, and George Widener in the lounge to play bridge with them. Norman tries to get Richard to play shuffleboard with him, but he yells at him, sending him away. Giff teaches Annette the "Navajo Rag," and she finds herself smitten with him. That night Giff, Annette, and a group of college students sing and play the piano in the dining room, and from a corner table, Captain Smith watches. Suddenly the lookout spots an iceberg, and although the crew tries to steer clear of danger, the ship is cut open by the iceberg. Julia and Norman are awakened by the crash and Annette tells them that the ship has hit an iceberg. Richard tells his family to dress warmly, but properly; then, they head outside. Richard and Julia have a tearful reconciliation on the boat deck, as he is putting Julia and the children in famous Lifeboat #6. Later, Norman gives up his seat in the full lifeboat so that a woman can be accommodated, and goes looking for his father. They reunite as the Titanic is in her final moments. Richard tells a passing steward that Norman is his 'son' and then tells the boy that he has been proud of him every day of his life and that he feels "tall as a mountain" standing by the boy's side. Then, they join the rest of the passengers and crew in singing the hymn "Nearer, My God, to Thee." The Titanic rises high in the air, explodes twice more, and rapidly sinks. Richard and Norman both drown. Giff Rogers falls into the ocean while trying to free a stuck lifeboat and is rescued by the passengers in Lifeboat #7. He survives. Meeker disguises himself as a woman and gains admittance to a lifeboat. He also survives, although Young recognizes him and calls him out in front of the other people in the lifeboat. George Healey tries to pull himself together as the ship is sinking, and goes below , joining crewmen who have been trapped in the engine room.The young prince Karl, of a small sub-kingdom of the German Empire is sent off near the turn of the 20th century to get a university education in Heidelberg, Baden-Wuerttemberg. His grandfather was one of a handful of petty kings within Germans-speaking central Europe. Fictional Karlsburg is small but fiercely proud of its history and traditions. Karl has been raised most of his life for the military, but when it comes time for him to marry, the princess picked for him can't stand his stiff formality. This would not be such a problem but for the fact that Karlsburg has no great wealth, only good breeding. His tutor recommends that he be sent to University to develop an easier, more sociable manner. He  slips into the social mix, becomes accepted as a "good chap" by his student peers, and falls deeply in love with Kathie, a pretty, popular, and musically inclined barmaid, who holds "court" in the local biergarten. Love notwithstanding, when his old grandfather passes on unexpectedly, the young Prince must turn his back on the girl and marry the princess, while taking his place in the small Kingdom that he's been preordained to rule. He returns for one more visit to Heidelberg, and bids Kathie a poignant farewell. The parallel subplot of the Princess being in love with Count Tarnitz, whom she cannot marry, was completely omitted from the film.Daredevil pilot Mike Dandridge goes into a business partnership with flight-school pal Al Reynolds and meets Maggie Colby, who's also a pilot. The two flyers take cargo to Japan, where they become romantically involved. Al is best man at their wedding, then joins the Air Force. Mike hires new pilot Nikki Taylor and might be having an affair with her during business trips while Maggie stays home with their new baby. Maggie decides to fly a shipment herself and let Mike care of their daughter for a change. He and co-pilot Phil take a risk by bringing the baby along on a flight to London. Their plane has difficulty landing in a fog, angering Maggie, whose own plane barely got there safely. But at least Mike and Maggie are brought closer by the experience.Marianne "Manina" Stuart , a prominent concert pianist, meets David Lawrence , a businessman, on a flight to New York from Rome. Their plane is diverted to Naples for engine repairs, and they decide to kill time by doing some sight-seeing. At lunch, a recording of the Kurt Weill/Maxwell Anderson song September Song, sung by Walter Huston, is playing. Manina is single, and David is unhappily married with a son in his late teens. They talk too long and miss their flight, and decide to stay on for a few days, getting to know each other. They quickly fall in love. Then they hear that the plane they were scheduled to catch has crashed into the ocean, and all on board are presumed dead. Due to a clerical mixup, they were believed to have been among those aboard. Their photos, along with the rest of the victims, are even published in a newspaper they pick up. Thinking their absences won't make any difference to the larger world, they decide to "stay dead" and begin a new life together in Naples. They make no contact with their families or friends, including Lawrence's wife Catherine  and son David Jr ([[Robert Arthur . Manina had been originally intending to play Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 2 in New York, and she keeps up her practice during the secret affair. She also has contact with piano teacher Maria Salvatini , who agrees not to reveal Manina is very much alive, but continues to tutor her. Catherine and her son travel to Naples to learn more of David's fate, discover he is alive, and confront him. Manina goes on to perform the Rachmaninoff concerto as originally planned in New York. In the end, Manina breaks up with David, who returns to his wife and son.Sekhar , a wealthy man, goes to comfort his friend  in a nature cure hospital. He is impressed with the services of Sharada , and the two of them fall in love. Sekhar goes abroad for higher education, and they plan to marry after he returns; however, his elders consider marrying him to Lakshmi . Sekhar's plane crashes and everyone believes him dead. Sharada's father looks after the agricultural works of Sekhar's father . One day he visits their house and discovers the condition of Sekhar's family and orphaned brothers and sisters. He and the elders think that if Sharada is married to Sekhar's father, the family will be taken care of, so Sharada marries him. It turns out that Sekhar had escaped from the plane crash alive. He meets Sharada, and when he finds out about her marriage to his father, he gets angry. Sharada is also upset, but controls her emotions. Sekhar becomes an alcoholic, and to get him out of this addiction, he marries Lakshmi. Lakshmi later learns of the love affair between Sekhar and Sharada and starts harassing Sekhar, forcing him to leave the house. During a pilgrimage with her husband, Sharada finds Sekhar unconscious near a temple and gets him to the house. Sharada prays to God and fasts for Sekhar's wellbeing. Finally, Sekhar and Sharada die.Elizabeth Barrett  is the disabled grown-up daughter of Edward Moulton-Barrett  of Wimpole Street, and has an intense interest in poetry. However, she lives under the obsessive rule of her father, and this severely limits her ability to develop her love of rhyme amongst her peers. Edward in fact shows clear incestuous tendencies towards her, and discourages close contact with any males. When the poet Robert Browning  enters her life, though, matters are brought to a head, through the intervention of Browning. Edward finds that his control over Elizabeth, and her younger sister Henrietta , is far from complete.In 1925, New York's governor, Al Smith, persuades state senator James J. "Jimmy" Walker that the Democratic Party needs him to run for mayor of New York City. A concern on Jimmy's part is his estrangement from wife Allie, but he discovers that she is willing to go along with his political aims. Under the guidance of Chris Nolan, his political mentor, Jimmy wins the election in a landslide. He later learns, though, that Allie has no intention of renewing their relationship. She is simply satisfied to be the great city's first lady. A drunken Jimmy is found on a park bench by Betty Compton, who takes him home, not knowing who he is. She scolds him for his behavior upon learning Jimmy is the mayor, and a mutual attraction develops. He uses his political connections to help find her a job. Such favors and graft become a focal point in 1929's reelection campaign, when opponent Fiorello LaGuardia mocks the mayor publicly and questions the current administration's integrity. Jimmy also goes bankrupt due to the stock market's crash, and Betty grows despondent over his inability or unwillingness to get Allie to consent to a divorce. Still popular with the public, Jimmy is reelected. He tries to bring Betty to his victory party, but it is against his colleagues' wishes. Tired of being hidden, Betty attempts suicide. She is hustled out of the country by Chris and impulsively marries a man who has been courting her. The charges against Jimmy lead fellow Democrats to believe he could hurt Franklin D. Roosevelt's presidential hopes for 1932. Jimmy admits to having accepted bribes and favors, claiming all successful politicians do. His popularity erodes. Spectators at a Yankee Stadium baseball game boo him for the first time. Jimmy offers his resignation as mayor in a speech from the field. He decides to leave New York forever, whereupon Betty, after a quick divorce, intends to join him, married or not.Charlie Y. Reader  is a 35-year-old theatrical agent in New York, living a seemingly idyllic life as a bachelor. Numerous women (among them Poppy , Helen , and Jessica  come and go, cleaning and cooking for him. Charlie's best friend since kindergarten, Joe McCall , who has a wife named Ethel and children in Indianapolis, comes to New York for a stay at Charlie's apartment, claiming that the excitement is gone from his 11-year marriage and that he wants to leave his wife. Joe envies and is amazed by Charlie's parade of girlfriends, while Charlie professes admiration for Joe's married life and family. At an audition, Charlie meets singer-actress Julie Gillis . She has her life planned to a tight schedule, determined to marry and retire from performing to a life of child-rearing by 22. Although at first she wards off Charlie's advances, she comes to see him as the ideal man for her plans. Julie demands that Charlie stop seeing other women. Charlie balks, but he begins to fall in love with her. Joe starts keeping company with Sylvia Crewes , a sophisticated classical musician and a typically neglected lover of Charlie's. Sylvia is approaching 33 and desires marriage as much as the younger Julie does. One day, annoyed by Julie and possibly jealous of Joe's attentions, Charlie blurts out a proposal of marriage to Sylvia. She is thrilled, only to discover the morning after their engagement party that he has proposed to Julie as well. Joe confesses his love to Sylvia and asks her to marry him. She turns him down, knowing that he loves his wife and children. Sylvia reminds Joe that girls turn into wives when they marry and she wants the same things Ethel does. On her way out, Sylvia runs into a charming stranger near the elevator who clearly wants to get to know her much better. Joe packs up and returns to Indiana to his wife. Charlie, his other girlfriends also having moved on with their lives, leaves for Europe for a year. Charlie returns just in time to see Sylvia marrying the new man in her life. She flips him the bridal bouquet. Julie is also at the wedding. Charlie tosses the flowers to her, then asks her to marry him. She agrees and they kiss.Jane Hoyt  arrives in Hong Kong, looking for her husband, thrill-seeking photojournalist Louis Hoyt . She attracts the eye of shady shipping magnate Hank Lee . With his help, she learns that Louis entered Communist China and was imprisoned as a suspected spy. She decides to arrange his escape. Hank advises her to give up the foolhardy venture, but she refuses to give up. She foolishly meets Fernand Rocha  alone and gives him a $500 deposit to set up a rescue, but he merely gambles the money away and locks her up for his lecherous purposes. Fortunately, word reaches Hank, and he saves her. Having fallen in love with Jane and realizing that she will not let herself get involved with him while her husband's fate remains uncertain, Hank decides to rescue the man himself. Hong Kong Marine Police Inspector Merryweather  happens to be inspecting Hank's junk when Hank decides to make his attempt and gets shanghaied for his trouble. Hoyt is freed. Merryweather is forced to help Lee fight off a Chinese gunboat sent in pursuit. When they return safely to Hong Kong, Hoyt graciously bows out of his wife's life.A young American secretary, Maria Williams , arrives in Rome and is greeted by Anita Hutchins , the woman she is replacing at the United States Distribution Agency. They drive to the villa Anita shares with Miss Frances , the longtime secretary of the American author John Frederick Shadwell, an expatriate living in Rome for the past fifteen years. On their way into town, the three women stop at the famous Trevi Fountain. Frances and Anita tell Maria that according to legend, if she throws a coin in the fountain and makes a wish to return to Rome, she will. Maria and Francis throw in their coins, but Anita, who is returning to the United States to marry, declines. Anita takes Maria to the agency and introduces her to Giorgio Bianchi , a translator with whom she works. Maria senses that Anita and Giorgio are attracted to each other, though Anita states that the agency forbids its American and Italian employees to fraternize. Later that evening at a party, Maria is attracted by the handsome Prince Dino di Cessi , despite being warned by Frances and Anita about him being a notorious womanizer. His girlfriends become known as "Venice girls" after he takes them to Venice for romantic trysts. Dino charms Maria, telling her to ignore what she's heard about him. After the party, Anita and Maria walk home and Anita admits that she has no fiancé waiting back in the United States. She's leaving because she believes she has a better chance of finding a husband in America; wealthy Italian men are not interested in mere secretaries, and the men who are interested are too poor. As they walk, Maria is pinched by a man who pesters her until she is rescued by Giorgio, who then asks Anita to go with him the next day to his family's country farm to attend a celebration. Anita reluctantly agrees. The next morning, Giorgio picks Anita up in his cousin's dilapidated truck. On their way out of town, they are spotted by her boss, Burgoyne . On Giorgio's family farm, Giorgio tells Anita that he hopes to become a lawyer, despite his poverty. Anita then climbs into the truck and is almost killed. After Giorgio rescues her, the breathless couple gives into their attraction and they kiss. Meanwhile back at the apartment, Dino calls for Maria and asks if she will accompany him to Venice. Desiring to see Venice but not wanting to lose Dino's respect, Maria arranges for Frances to chaperon them, to Dino's disappointment. At the agency on Monday, Burgoyne questions Maria about Anita's weekend with Giorgio, and although she maintains that Anita did nothing wrong, Burgoyne assumes she is having an affair with Giorgio. The following day he fires Giorgio. When Anita finds out, she blames Maria for betraying her confidence and insists on moving out of their apartment. She visits Giorgio, worried that she may have ruined his chances of becoming a lawyer. Giorgio has no regrets. Meanwhile, Maria sets out to attract Dino's affections. She learns about the modern art he loves, his favorite food and wine, and pretends to learn the piccolo . Maria even lies about her background, telling Dino she is three-quarters Italian. Beguiled by how much he apparently has in common with Maria, Dino introduces her to his mother, the Principessa, who expresses her approval. Later, Dino confides in Maria that she is the only girl who he has ever completely trusted. Troubled by her deception, Maria confesses her subterfuge, even showing Dino her notebook listing his interests. Frances meets with Anita, who admits that she and Giorgio are in love but will not marry because he is too poor. Frances returns home to comfort the guilt-stricken Maria, who is also determined to leave Rome because Dino has not contacted her since her admission. Frances tells her she is glad she is no longer young and susceptible to romance. The next morning, however, Frances suddenly announces to Shadwell that she is returning to the United States, explaining that she does not want to wind up an old maid in a foreign country. Shadwell, unaware that Frances has been deeply in love with him for fifteen years, offers her a marriage of convenience, based on mutual respect. Eager to be with him under any circumstances, Frances accepts. The next day, Shadwell learns that he is terminally ill and has less than a year to live unless he goes to America for experimental treatment. Shadwell returns to his villa and coldly breaks off his engagement with Frances. After Shadwell leaves, Frances learns from his doctor the truth about Shadwell's condition, and then follows him to a café, where she proceeds to match him drink for drink while bickering about whether he should pursue treatment. Completely drunk, Frances climbs into a nearby fountain and sobs about her life. After Shadwell takes her back to the villa and tucks her in, he goes to see Dino at the di Cessi palace. Shadwell tells Dino he is leaving for the United States, where he will marry Frances. He uses reverse psychology to provoke Dino into realizing that he loves Maria. After Anita and Maria are packed and ready to leave, Frances telephones and asks to meet them at the Trevi Fountain. When they arrive, Maria and Anita are disappointed to see the fountain emptied for cleaning. When they are joined by Frances, however, the water springs up again and the women are thrilled by its beauty. Dino and Giorgio then arrive, and as the men embrace their girlfriends, Frances is joined by Shadwell, and they happily admire the fountain, which has proved lucky to them all.Norman Hackett  works in a jewellers workshop and dreams about meeting the shop window dresser over the road from his workshop. He wants to buy her a diamond pendant and is persuaded to bet a pound on a six horse accumulator at the Goodwood races. The bookie starts to worry when Norman wins the first five races and owes him over sixteen thousand pounds.Seventeen-year-old Tom Robinson Lee, a new senior at a boy's prep school, finds himself at odds with the machismo culture of his class in which the other boys love sports, roughhouse, fantasize about girls, and worship their coach, Bill Reynolds. Tom prefers classical music, reads Candide, goes to the theater, and generally seems to be more at ease in the company of women. The other boys torment Tom for his "unmanly" qualities and call him "sister boy," and he is treated unfeelingly by his father, Herb Lee, who believes a man should be manly and that his son should fit in with the other boys. Only Al, his roommate, treats Tom with any decency, perceiving that being different is not the same as being unmasculine. This growing tension is observed by Laura Reynolds, wife of the coach. The Reynolds are also Tom's and Al's house master and mistress. She tries to build a connection with the young man, often inviting him alone to tea, and eventually falls in love with him, in part because of his many similarities to her first husband John, who was killed in World War II. The situation escalates when Tom is goaded into visiting the local prostitute to dispel suspicions about his sexuality, but things go badly. His failure to lose his virginity causes him to attempt suicide in the woman's kitchen. His father arrives from the city to meet with the dean about Tom's impending expulsion, having been alerted to Tom's raffish intentions by a classmate. Assuming his son's success, he gets one of the film's biggest send-ups as he boasts of his son's sexual triumph and time-honored leap into manhood until the Reynolds inform him otherwise. Laura goes in search of Tom and finds him where he often goes to ruminate, near the golf course's sixth tee. She tries to comfort him, counseling that he'll have a wife and family some day, but he's inconsolable. She starts to leave, then returns, takes his hand, and utters the film's famous line, "Years from now when you talk about this, and you will, be kind." The film opens and closes ten years into the future, when the adult Tom, who is now a successful writer and married, returns to his prep school. The final scene, new to the Hollywood version, shows Tom visiting his old coach and house master to ask after Laura. Bill tells him that, last he's heard, she's out west somewhere but he has a note from her to him, which she enclosed in her last letter to her ex-husband. Tom opens it outside and learns she wrote it after reading his published novel derived from his time at the school and their relationship. After their moment of passion, she tells him, she had no choice but to leave her husband.Mr. Morgan  washes up on an island in the South Pacific, ruled by Pastor Corbett , a missionary who rules as a religious despot. Morgan stays on the island despite his conflicting with Corbett and has an illegitimate child, Turia , by island native Maeva . After her death, he leaves the island, but also leaves her daughter behind. He returns to the island shortly before World War II, and finds that his daughter has fallen in love with an American pilot who crash-landed on the island.The story concerns Kay Hilliard , a former nightclub singer who discovers her husband Steven  is having an affair with showgirl Crystal Allen . Kay is the last to find out among her circle of gossiping girlfriends. Kay travels to Reno to divorce from Steve who then marries Crystal, but when Kay finds out that Crystal isn't true to Steve she starts fighting to win her ex-husband back.Christy Sloane  is sent to Los Angeles on a business trip to inform Peter Ulysses Lockwood  that he has inherited 2 million dollars from his deceased uncle. Constantly broke because of her family, Christy is in financial straits. Her friend at work advises her to not tell Peter the news until she snags him. Christy dismisses the idea and leaves for her trip. Peter is a famous radio personality. Taking one look at him, Christy swoons, interrupting him on the way to his wedding. The zany hijinks include Christy being mistaken for Peter's old flame; Peter and Christy being stuck somewhere between Los Angeles and La Jolla when Peter accidentally drives into the ocean; and their rescuers mistaking them for newlyweds. Peter asks his best man, Roland Cook , to help him with the situation, but Roland only causes more trouble because he is in love with Peter's bride-to-be.Ed Hutcheson is the crusading managing editor of a large metropolitan newspaper called The Day. He is steadfastly loyal to publisher Margaret Garrison, the widow of the paper's founder, but Mrs. Garrison is on the verge of selling the newspaper to interests who plan to permanently cease its operation. Hutcheson has other concerns, including that his estranged wife Nora is about to remarry. He also puts his reporters to work on the murder of a young woman and the involvement of racketeer Tomas Rienzi, which could turn out to be a circulation builder that keeps the paper in business or else the last big story it ever covers.Charismatic roving peddler Hank Martin  falls in love at first sight with schoolteacher Verity Wade  and soon marries her. On their wedding day, he rents a ramshackle home from his upper class lawyer friend Jules Bolduc . Hank rounds up some of his many friends to fix up the place, but Verity begins to realize that he is not as nice as he appears to be; while they do the work, he sees nothing wrong in going inside to read a law book. He confides to her that it is all a matter of manipulating people the right way. Jules invites the couple to dine with him that night, but Hank soon quarrels with another guest, Robert L. Castlebury IV . He accuses Castlebury, the owner of the company that buys cotton, of shortchanging the poor farmers. When Hank goes about his business, Verity accompanies him to the bayou. A young woman named Flamingo  leaps into his arms, but when she learns that he is now married, she tries to arrange for an alligator to rid her of her rival. Verity is only injured. However, Flamingo does not give up on the man she has loved since she was a teen. After Hank sends Verity home to recover, Flamingo tracks Hank down on the road. She overcomes his resistance, and they start an affair. Hank sets out to prove that Castlebury is cheating. When Hank proves that the weights used are seriously inaccurate, one of Castlebury's men aims a rifle at one of Hank's followers, and is killed by farmer Jeb Brown . To avoid inflammatory publicity, Castlebury sees to it that Brown's murder trial is repeatedly postponed. Shadowy power broker Guy Polli  offers to use his influence to get the case heard in return for Hank's "thanks". When Castlebury manager Samuel T. Beach  shoots and mortally wounds the prisoner, Hank persuades the dying man to go to court anyway. Even though Brown expires, Hank has enough time to persuade the jury to declare him innocent posthumously before the judge can adjourn, and to tell the true story to the gathered press. The resulting publicity forces Castlebury to sell his company to Polli , and enables Hank to run for governor. However, a major rainstorm the day before the election prevents many of Hank's rural supporters from voting. In desperation, he goes to see Polli. Polli offers the votes of certain city precincts he controls, but in return, he insists that Hank sign an affidavit stating that Beach was with him at the time Brown was shot; the company Polli has bought would be destroyed if Beach were convicted. Hank reluctantly agrees. Each candidate wins the same number of counties, but the state assembly that will break the tie is controlled by the incumbent. Rather than try again in four years, Hank urges his supporters to march on the capital as an armed mob. Just as they are starting out, Jules shows up, stating he has proof that Beach is Brown's murderer, and that Hank knowingly signed the false affidavit to get Polli's support. When Verity confirms Hank was actually with her at the time of the killing, Brown's widow shoots Hank. As Hank is dying, he tells his wife that his supporters were smarter than he thought.Shemp is suffering from an enlarged vein in his leg, and fears that it will lead to amputation. His doctor , however, advises that a few weeks in the Old West will cure him. Upon arrival in a somewhat lawless town, the boys befriend the ruthless Doc Barker ([[Norman Willis . Barker listens to Shemp's story about his bad leg, mistaking "the biggest vein you ever saw" for a gold-bearing vein worth millions. The Stooges take a liking to Barker, but are later informed by the beautiful Nell  that he is an outlaw who is holding her two sisters (Norma Randall and [[Ruth Godfrey  hostage in the basement of the saloon. Thr boys hatch a plan to obtain the prison cell keys from Barker's coat. Shemp joins the outlaw in a game of Poker, while Moe and Larry prepare beverages for the card players. The two find every possible deadly chemical they can to add to their volatile Mickey Finn, from Old Homicide to paint . They also prepare a Sarsaparilla for Shemp to make sure their pal does not indulge in the suicidal drink. Barker downs the concoction, and screams for water. Shemp grabs a nearby fire hose and sprays the entire gang, soaking them. Moe and Larry quickly grab Barker's coat  and get the cell keys to Nell, who frees her sisters. Barker ends up dying of heart failure at the Poker table, and his irate gang throw Larry in the cell with plans to kill him at sunrise. Moe and Shemp attempt to free Larry using every tool they can find, while the girls ride for help. After freeing Larry, the trio stumble upon a suitcase full of old, Southern-style clothing. They then quickly change outfits to disguise themselves from Barker's gang, but a gang member  recognizes them in a heartbeat. The boys flee the saloon, and scurry away to hideout outside of town. Just as they are cornered by Barker's gang, Shemp takes off his gun belt, and, now serving as an ad hoc ammunition belt, puts it through a meat grinder. The increased firepower scares the gang away, and the Stooges emerge victorious.{{quotation}} King Edward IV of England  has been placed on the throne with the help of his brother, Richard, Duke of Gloucester . After Edward's coronation in the Great Hall with his brothers George and Richard watching, he leaves with his son. Richard contemplates the throne, before advancing towards the audience and then addressing them, delivering a speech that outlines his physical deformities, including a hunched back and a withered arm. He goes on to describe his jealousy over his brother's rise to power in contrast to his lowly position. He dedicates himself to task and plans to frame his brother, George, Duke of Clarence , for conspiring to kill the King, and to have George sent to the Tower of London, by claiming George will murder Edward's heirs. He then tells his brother he will help him get out. Having confused and deceived the King, Richard proceeds with his plans after getting a warrant, and enlists two ruffians  to carry out his dirty work: George is murdered, drowned in a butt of wine. Though Edward had sent a pardon to Richard, Richard stopped it passing. Richard goes on to woo and seduce the Lady Anne , and though she hates him for killing her husband and father, she cannot resist and ends up marrying him. Richard then orchestrates disorder in the court, fueling rivalries, and setting the court against the Queen consort, Elizabeth . The King, weakened by exhaustion, appoints his brother, Richard, as Lord Protector, and dies soon after hearing of the death of George. Edward's son, soon to become Edward V , is met by Richard whilst en route to London. Richard has the Lord Chamberlain, Lord Hastings  arrested and executed, and forces the young King, along with his younger brother the Duke of York , to have a protracted stay at the Tower of London. With all obstacles now removed, Richard enlists the help of his cousin The Duke of Buckingham  to alter his public image, and to become popular with the people. In doing so, Richard becomes the people's first choice to become the new King. Buckingham had aided Richard on terms of being given the title of Earl of Hereford and the income from the accompanying land grant, but balks at the idea of murdering the two princes. Richard then asks a minor knight, Sir James Tyrrel , eager for advancement, to have young Edward and the Duke of York killed in the Tower of London. On requesting his earldom at Richard's coronation, Richard  shouts "I am not in the giving vein today!" Buckingham then fears for his life and joins the opposition against Richard's rule. Richard, now fearful due to his dwindling popularity, raises an army to defend his throne and the House of York against the House of Lancaster, led by Henry, Earl of Richmond , at Bosworth Field. Before the battle, however, Buckingham is captured and executed. On the eve of the battle, Richard is haunted by the ghosts of all those he has killed in his bloody ascent to the throne, and he wakes screaming. Richard composes himself, striding out to plan the battle for his generals, and gives a motivational speech to his troops. The two forces engage in battle, with the Lancastarians having the upper hand. Lord Stanley , whose loyalties had been questionable for some time, betrays Richard, and allies himself with Henry. Richard sees this and charges into the thick of battle, side-by-side with his loyal companion Sir William Catesby  in order to kill Richmond and end the battle quickly. Eventually Richard spots Richmond and they briefly engage in a duel before being interrupted by Stanley's men. Richard and Catesby are able to escape the oncoming forces, but, in doing so, Richard is knocked off his horse, loses his cherished crown, and becomes separated from Catesby, who is off seeking rescue. Searching desperately for Richmond, whom he has lost sight of, Richard cries out: "A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!" Catesby finds the king and offers him withdrawal, but Richard refuses to flee. Catesby is then killed by Richmond's men without Richard even noticing. Richard then spots Lord Stanley, and engages him in single combat. Before a victor can emerge, the Lancastarian troops charge Richard, and fatally wound him. Richard convulses in several spasms and offers his sword to the sky before dying. Stanley orders Richard's body to be taken away, and then finds Richard's crown in a thorn bush. He then proceeds to offer it to Henry, leaving the crown of England in safe hands once again.Serenade tells the story of a poor vineyard worker who becomes an operatic tenor, and is involved with two women &mdash; one a high society hostess, the other a Mexican bullfighter's daughter. Highly melodramatic in nature, the film features a large amount of operatic music, all of it sung by Lanza. Of note is the monologue from Verdi's Otello  featuring Metropolitan Opera soprano Licia Albanese. Reviewing the film in The New York Times, A.H. Weiler wrote that, "Mr. Lanza, who was never in better voice, makes this a full and sometimes impressive musical entertainment." The movie differs greatly from the James M. Cain source novel. In the book, Juana  is a prostitute and she and Damon  set out to open a brothel together. She comes into conflict with the local police and the two flee to Los Angeles and then move to New York, where Damon struggles to overcome his bisexuality. Obviously, none of this material could be made into a popular movie in the US in 1956, so the story becomes merely that of an opera singer torn between a bitchy, worldly patron of the arts  and a Mexican bullfighter's daughter. The tenor has a breakdown because of his unrequited love for the society woman, but finds love  with the Mexican girl.Catholic girl Patsy lives in an orphanage in Quebec. After the orphanage burns down due to Patsy's arson, she finds a new home with the McChesney couple, who live in Protestant Ottawa. While Victoria is excited about the new family member, Patrick reacts reluctantly as he is a candidate for the Parliament in Ottawa. After Victoria overcomes a case of mycetism caused by Patsy collecting poisonous mushrooms, Victoria is suspected of causing the flame cleaning of the local school. The examination of the case finds no concrete evidence against Patsy. McChesney declares to give up his candidature in order to accept Patsy as his daughter. Patsy, however, flees. In the meantime, her innocence is proven. Patsy is found again and accepted in the McChesney home as their daughter.Droopy is presented here as a manservant working for an unseen master, who is going away for a few days with the head butler, Mr. Theeves. As they are packing the master's clothes, Mr. Theeves requests that Droopy acquire someone to help him around the house while they are away, and the first person to come to Droopy's mind is his identical twin brother, Drippy. Droopy contacts Drippy at O'Brien's Gymnasium and explains the situation to him. Drippy arrives later on and displays his superhuman strength by punching his way through the front door before greeting Droopy. Droopy introduces Drippy to Mr. Theeves, who is briefly astonished by Drippy's uncanny resemblance to Droopy, thinking he was seeing double, and is also on the receiving end of Drippy's immense strength while shaking his hand. Mr. Theeves then explains Drippy's duties to him, and tells him that no matter what, no strangers are allowed on the premises. However, while Droopy loads the master's suitcase into his limousine, his old enemy, Spike the Irish bulldog, asks if Droopy can put him up for a little while, since he has had little to no good luck recently. Droopy reluctantly agrees and has Spike go to the back door. As Spike snidely muses about taking advantage of Droopy, the back door opens, but what Spike is unaware of is that it is Drippy who has answered. Spike promptly demands, "Let me have it, pal," and Drippy responds by punching Spike across the terrace. Spike gets caught in a veranda which swings him back into the door as Drippy closes it. Droopy then appears and lets a bewildered Spike inside, but as Droopy fetches some food, Drippy comes back into the kitchen and hits Spike outside with the kitchen table. Droopy, unaware, takes Spike's food outside, assuming Spike wanted to eat in the patio. As Droopy goes back for mustard, Drippy appears again and throws Spike into the swimming pool, leaving him dazed. Droopy then rescues Spike, assuming he wanted to go for a swim, and takes him inside the house. Droopy puts some dry clothes on Spike, but while he goes for some shoes, Drippy appears again and knocks Spike out cold. Droopy, assuming Spike was sleepy, tucks him in bed. Spike wakes up and begins to enjoy the comfort, but when he tries to call Droopy, Drippy responds instead and punches Spike into the bathroom, where Droopy is shaving. Spike accuses Droopy of assaulting him, but Droopy responds by recommending a cold shower for Spike. Expectedly, Drippy goes for a shower as well and hits Spike out, stark naked. Droopy offers to get Spike some clothes, but this time, Spike demands that he accompany Droopy. As Droopy enters a corridor, Drippy appears through another and hits Spike with a shillelagh. Spike angrily demands that Droopy hand it over, but Droopy denies having one. Each time Spike puts Droopy in the corridor, Drippy appears through the other and hits Spike. Assuming it is Droopy hurting him, Spike demands that he stop, but Droopy denies having touched Spike all day. Now believing that Droopy may be going crazy, Spike discreetly calls an ambulance. When the ambulance arrives, Spike calls Droopy, but this time, both Droopy and a surprisingly-friendly Drippy answer. Shocked at the sight of two Droopys, Spike goes berserk and he himself is taken away by the ambulance.John  and Julie  are two children who personally want to see the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in spite of the fact that their parents have no intention of going. The two decide to run off to London when left alone. Along their way, they encounter different quirky and eccentric people.A popular performer, Jeannie Laird decides to buy her first house and celebrate with a big party. The guests' enjoyment is interfered with by the happenings at the home of the next door neighbor, Bill Carter. Carter is a comic-strip artist. He prides himself on every story he tells being true to life, including that of 10-year-old son Joey, whom he is raising alone. But when a relationship blossoms between Bill and Jeannie after a shaky start, a neglected Joey ends up blabbing to Bill's bosses that the comic strip's adventures have become far more fiction than fact.The film begins with Phyllis  telling her story in flashbacks. It begins how she meets rich vintner Paul Hochen  from Napa Valley in a bar and marries him soon after. Not long after the marriage, Phyllis begins having an affair with a local rodeo rider, San Sanford , seeing him every time her husband is away, which is frequently. One night, Phyllis' elderly mother-in-law  thinks a burglar is breaking into the house, so she calls the police. Phyllis sees this as an opportunity to kill her husband and blame the burglar for the crime. The plan backfires a day later when Phyllis instead kills her husband's best friend. Not wanting to go to jail, she convinces her husband to confess to the killing and they concoct a story that would set him free after the trial. Unfortunately for her husband, Phyllis lies at the trial and he is put away for murder. The "unholy" wife finally gets the punishment she deserves when her mother-in-law dies of poisoning and the blame goes to Phyllis, who is sent to prison—for a crime she had nothing to do with. Later, she faces her execution in the gas chamber. The film ends with Paul showing their son Michael  the vineyard that will someday be his.In "The Red Peppers", a husband and wife song and dance team  bicker with each other, another performer , and the theatre manager . In "Fumed Oak", a middle-aged man  finally has enough of his wife, daughter, and mother-in-law . Having saved enough money secretly, he announces to his stunned family that he is leaving, never to see them again. In the final segment, "Ways and Means", a husband  informs his wife  that he has gambled away their money, leaving little to pay their debts, especially to Olive . They pawn their last few valuable possessions, hoping to win enough in the casino. However, Olive takes the seat the husband was waiting for and proceeds to win a great deal of money. When she gets up, he takes his rightful place and loses all he has. That night, the couple awake to find Olive's butler, Murdoch , trying to steal from them. After laughing at him , the wife proposes he rob from his employer and split the money with them. Murdoch takes Olive's winnings, but double crosses the couple, only to end up caught by the police.Stone asks Gannon to speak before a night-school college journalism class. He turns down the invitation, writing a nasty letter to the instructor stating his viewpoint, but is ordered to go before the class by his managing editor. He finds the attractive Stone teaching the class. Before he is able to introduce himself and apologize for the letter, Erica reads it aloud and mocks Gannon before the class. Humiliated, he decides to join the class to show her up, posing as a wallpaper salesman named Jim Gallagher. Erica is quite taken by this charming man, whom she unwittingly finds exceptional for a student. Gannon continues his ruse as he becomes quite enchanted with Erica, and has to fend off Dr. Pine, as well as his own girlfriend Peggy DeFore, a nightclub singer . When Erica discovers Gannon's deception, she immediately calls their relationship off, but convinced by Dr. Pine, she gives Gannon another chance. By the end of the film, both Jim and Erica have come to understand, and partially adopt, the other's point of view.Elizabeth has recurring headaches and is plagued with insomnia. She is receiving letters from a woman called Lizzie, but Elizabeth can't remember knowing anyone named Lizzie. When Elizabeth is under hypnosis, her psychiatrist, Dr. Wright, discovers Elizabeth has three personalities: The shy Elizabeth, the Mr. Hyde-like Lizzie, and the kind, well-adjusted Beth, the woman she always should have been. It is up to Dr. Wright to help Elizabeth to become Beth completely.The film noir concerns a doctor at a Canadian hospital in the province of Quebec, Canada who receives a series of poison pen letters. Later, more letters all signed with the mysterious pseudonym "Raven," are delivered to others in the small Canadian town. The wife of the doctor receives a letter accusing her of having an affair. One letter informs a shell-shocked veteran that he is dying of cancer, causing the distraught man to commit suicide. Quickly, the townsfolk begin pointing fingers at all possible suspects.A young lieutenant  has an affair with a baroness but decides to put an end to it when he meets Christine , a musician's daughter. It ends tragically when the Colonel learns his wife had this affair.Kannan  is a playful teenage boy, in the cusp between puberty to adolescent, the son of the famous and well to do lawyer Varadarajan  and Thangam . While playing football he meets Radha  the daughter of a well respected freedom fighter family of Veeramuthu  and Maragatham . At first sight both fell in love. Varadarajan is a modest man but Thangam is a greedy woman. Thangam wishes to marry off Kannan to her brother Sonachalam's  and Perundhevi  couple's daughter Kannamma  and invites them to her place. Kannamma is a naive girl and Mannar , Perundhevi's brother loves her. Varadarajan likes the simplicity of Veeramuthu's family and agrees on the alliance of Kannan and Radha. When Thangam opposes to this, Varadarajan in order to carry onn with the wedding, lies to her that Veeramuthu will present much dowry. The wedding takes place. After the wedding, Perundhevi who is furious that Kannamma is not the bride, instigates Thangam to query regarding the dowry. A scuffle takes place between the two families and Thangam wishes to send back Radha to her parents place but Kannan sides Radha and accepts her full heartedly. Meanwhile, Sonachalam wishes to leave home but Perundhevi who is in agony, decides to stay back and plans to create hatred between Thangam and Radha. In turn, Thangam tortures Radha in every possible way but Radha fights back and keep calm. Matters get worse when Varadarajan dies not before seeking promise from Kannan not to disobey Thangam. Kannan and Radha's marriage life hits a roadblock. When coming to know Thangam treats Radha very badly, Veeramuthu steps in and takes Radha, who is driven away by both Thangam and Perundevi, away to his place. When Kanna comes back Thangam and Perundevi lies to him that Radha had gone to her parents place along with Veeramuthu, without seeking their consent. That night, Radha tries to meet Kannan but Thangam would not let Radha in. Meanwhile, Kannamma unwittingly lets know Kannan regarding this incident and Kannan goes to Veeramuthu's place to explain in order to take back Radha. Veeramuthu spells to Kannan clearly that Radha would not go to Kannan's place as long as Thangam is there. Taking this opportunity, Thangam and Peundhevi force and arrange Kannamma to be married to Kannan. Observing all this, Sonachalam and Mannar attempt to abduct Kannamma but fail. To make matters worse, Thangam sends a letter to Radha informing that Kannan would remarry and restricts Radha not to interfere in Kannan's life anymore. On the engagement day Kannan who is badly disturbed by the events, falls from the first floor of his balcony and badly injured. Upon hearing this Radha rushes to Kannan's place but was stopped by Veeramuthu but later consents after hearing to Radha's plea. Kannan is happy to see Radha around tells her not to leave him even though Thangam mistreats her and Radha assures this. At this juncture Thangam and Perundevi further humiliates Veeramuthu to its worst which drives him to sell his mansion to compensate with much dowry. Thangam tries all her best to drive Radha away but to no avail and becomes violent. Radha hides in one of the rooms but Thangam tries to force open the door when the door collapse onto Thangam. At the same time Veeramuthu parades the dowry items from his home throughout the streets, much to the residents awry and reaches Kannan's place. Upon seeing all this, Perundevi and Kannamma flees. Thangam realises her err at her deathbed and seeks apology from Kannan, Radha and Veeramuthu then dies. Both Kannan and Radha reunites and live happily.Violette Szabo is a young woman whose father is English and mother is French, living in London during World War II. She meets French Army officer Etienne Szabo, stationed in the city, and within three days they become engaged to be married. They have a daughter, Tania, but Etienne never sees her as he is killed fighting in North Africa; she and the daughter move into her parents' home. Because of her linguistic skills, the widow is recruited as a spy by the British government. On her first mission, she is teamed with Captain Tony Fraser , a man she had met earlier socially and liked. She parachutes into France, and shares a train compartment to Rouen with curious Nazi soldiers. The French Resistance group Fraser had set up in Rouen has been betrayed. Their job is to contact any survivors and to blow up a major railway viaduct. One Resistance member who Szabo contacts tells her that another survivor, a garage mechanic , is suspect, but Szabo takes the risk of meeting him anyway. He informs her that only three of 98 group members remain. Nonetheless, she persuades him to try to blow up the viaduct. Szabo is picked up and questioned by the Gestapo. She is released . She, however, manages to rendezvous in Paris with Fraser, who congratulates her: the viaduct was destroyed. After their return to England, Fraser assures Szabo that she will not have to go behind enemy lines again, but due to the shortage of experienced agents, she is asked to do just that. She agrees, parachuting into France. Once again, she is under Fraser's command, this time in the Limoges region. She sets out with a guide to contact the various Resistance units to coordinate their actions. However, as they drive through a village, they see another Frenchman shooting two German soldiers passing by on motorcycles, and she and her guide become engaged in a running firefight with a German patrol. When she twists her ankle while fleeing, she remains behind to cover the guide's escape as he swims a river. She runs out of ammunition and is captured. Though tortured, she defiantly refuses to provide any information. Eventually she is reunited with two fellow women agents she had befriended during their initial training, Lilian Rolfe and Denise Bloch, in a Nazi Paris prison. As Allied forces advance on Paris, the women are placed on a train for Germany. When the train is bombed by Allied aircraft, the women have a chance to attempt to escape, but Szabo instead fetches water for male prisoners. One of them is Fraser. An uncredited Michael Caine plays the prisoner who leans forward and calls to Szabo for water; in real life, that was the war hero F. F. E. Yeo-Thomas . That night, Szabo and Fraser acknowledge their love for each other. The men and women are separated. The three women are taken to a concentration camp, where, one day, they are executed. After the war, Tania and her grandparents go to Buckingham Palace, where the King gives her her mother's posthumous George Cross. Afterward, they meet Fraser.-->  *Pola Alonso *Arturo Arcari *Héctor Armendáriz *Lina Bardo *Alfredo Dalton *Juancito Díaz *Francisco Pablo Donadio *Rolando Dumas *Carlos A. Dusso *José María Fra *Arturo Huber *Jorge Leval *Eugenio Novile *Juan Carlos Prevende *Virginia Romay *Marcelo Ruggero *Héctor Silva *Silvia Sisley *José Soriano *Osvaldo Tempore *Mateo Velich <!--
Bugs Bunny boards the Chattanooga Choo Choo and finds Ralph Kramden and Ed Norton, from "The Honeymooners" TV show. Ralph and Ed are starving, and when they set eyes on Bugs, they yell: "It's foooooood!"The story begins with Foghorn and the Dawg in the barnyard. Foghorn is playing solitaire, and the Dawg approaches from behind with two large clash cymbals, striking them together twice, once over Foghorn's head and the second time with Foghorn's head in between. Foghorn counters by taking a pie from a nearby windowsill, then mashing it into Dawg's face . The Dawg, his face covered with cream, chases Foghorn but is strangled by his rope. Foghorn returns, and like a barber, uses a straight razor to remove the cream from the Dawg's face. The Dawg becomes incapacitated when Foghorn places a large metal pipe over his body. Foghorn then gets a scalding hot towel from a pot of boiling water and places in on the helpless Dawg's face. Henery enters the scene looking for a chicken. Henery approaches the Dawg, who is sharpening an ax on a grinder, and thinking the Dawg is a chicken tries to pull him from behind with the Dawg's neck rope. The Dawg explains that he is not a chicken, and then points to Foghorn who is in the distance. Henery starts out after Foghorn but the Dawg stops him and states that Henery has to out-trick Foghorn if he is going to catch him. Henery attracts Foghorn's attention by trying to secure a catapult with a large pumpkin on it. Foghorn helps Henery by securing the catapult for him, and as he walks away Henery launches the pumpkin at Foghorn, which hits him in the head. Henery tells Foghorn that he wants to capture him for dinner. Playing along, Foghorn replies that he is too old and tough to be used for dinner. Foghorn tells Henery that a better choice would be pheasant under glass. Henery, not knowing what pheasant is, asks Foghorn where he can find one. Foghorn naturally points to the Dawg's house, telling Henery that a pheasant lives inside. Foghorn provides Henery with a glass cover and Henery walks into the Dawg's house and places it over him. The Dawg runs out with the glass over him but is again constrained by his rope. With the Dawg temporarily immobile, Foghorn returns with a set of golf clubs, placing a golf ball on the Dawg's nose. Foghorn swings, but hits the Dawg instead of the ball, sending the Dawg  toward a tree. Foghorn then covers Henery with vanishing cream and Henery is led to believe that he is invisible. Henery, still under the impression that the Dawg is a pheasant, leaves in pursuit. The Dawg uses a mirror to prove to Henery that he is not really invisible and that he has been tricked again by Foghorn. The Dawg runs out of his house but is stopped by the rope again and Foghorn returns with an accordion which he stuffs over the Dawg's head while playing the instrument. Foghorn convinces Henery to resume his quest for the pheasant, citing historical episodes. The Dawg finally explains to Henery that as a chicken hawk he should be after chicken and asks Henery to unhook his from his rope. The Dawg lures Foghorn from hiding and they start a fight. The story closes with Henery next to a pot of boiling water, saying to the audience that, pheasant or chicken, he will fricassee the loser.Woody Woodpecker, tired and perspiring, is walking down a dusty road of the old West carrying a heavy suitcase. Hearing a stagecoach approaching, he stands in the road thumbing a ride, but the stage passes him by in a swirl of dust. He opens his suitcase, which contains an assortment of artificial limbs used to display women's stockings, wigs, dresses, etc. Woody transforms himself into a young woman by putting on artificial limbs, a wig and a dress. Wally Walrus, driver of a stagecoach, approaches Woody in the road. Woody coyly lifts his skirt to display the shapely limbs. Wally quickly stops the stage, and Woody enters. Woody, in the coach's dining room, orders a sumptuous meal from Wally, now dresses as a waiter. Woody's wig falls off. Wally realizes his mistake, and he hands Woody a check for $30. Woody and Wally argue over the price, and Wally pulls a lever, which ejects Woody over the stagecoach roof. Woody jumps from the stagecoach and runs away. Woody then drives the stagecoach and meets the real "Buzz Buzzard the Bandit" astride a horse. Buzz forces Woody to drive to his hideout cottage. Woody, again disguised as a woman, causes Buzz's heart to flutter as he hastens to put his house in order, dress in "full dress and silk hat," and get ready to welcome Woody. A giant commotion emanates from the cottage. Woody rushes out the door with Buzz in full chase. Woody jumps into the stage, with Buzz making a close second.A poor and destitute Woody Woodpecker is seated in his tumbledown hut on the edge of the city dump, almost completely surrounded by bills. "I wish I was rich," he says. As he speaks, a four-leaf clover pops up. It changes into a small, green woodpecker, who claims that he's a leprechaun named O'Toole. The leprechaun, after showing Woody a few of his tricks, tells Woody that he has come to bring him three wishes. "I wish I was rich. Give me gold," says Woody. "You'll find it at the end of the rainbow," says O'Toole. Sure enough, Woody slides into a pile of gold. He fills a bag with gold and starts to run. Woody exits through a bank door and sets off an alarm which brings the police. As Woody, handcuffed by two policemen, is being taken away, Woody says to O'Toole, "I wish I was out of this. Take me home." "That's wish number two," says O'Toole, as he grants the wish. So, Woody's back where he started from, surrounded by bills, as O'Toole tells Woody that he should work for what he gets. As O'Toole starts to go, Woody remembers that he has one more wish, so he says to O'Toole, "Go to blazes." So O'Toole, the leprechaun, returns from the place once he came- his home of brimstone and blaze. It ended with Dante, the woodpecker devil, told O'Toole "You wore out, your welcome up there, again".The story centers on Sylvester visiting a circus, where he not only tries to catch Tweety for his meal, but attempt to one-up a lion . A carefree Sylvester walks into the circus singing his theme "Meow!" where he visits the various animal exhibits. There, upon seeing the lion exhibit, the unimpressed cat immediately expresses his displeasure over the large feline's billing. However, Sylvester is far more interested in Tweety ... and thus the chase begins. Tweety runs into the big top, where the lion  is waiting to maul Sylvester for his earlier remarks . From this point forward, the lion serves as both an antagonist for Sylvester and a protecter of Tweety. Sylvester tries beating what he thinks is a fire hose to free Tweety, unknowing that the "hose" is an elephant's trunk. The elephant grabs Sylvester with his trunk and—after crushing his chest—throws the battered puss into the lion's cage, where the lion finishes the job. Other run-ins with the lion, elephant and other animals—all ending with Sylvester getting the worst of things—involve him exploiting his abilities as a high diver (Tweety directs the elephant to "drink it all down" , a fire eater  and a high-wire walker. In the end, Sylvester finally gets rid of the lion ... only to unwittingly lock himself in a cage with even more lions . Tweety immediately takes a hat and cane and becomes a carnival barker  A loud roar erupts, and with Sylvester presumably having met his fate, Tweety changes his spiel: "Step wight up! Fifty wions, count 'em, fifty wions!"Lumber mill workers Woody Woodpecker and Buzz Buzzard are friends when they are sawing trees, but when Wally Walrus  rings the dinner bell, they become bitter enemies. Woody and Buzz duke it out over food, with the woods being pecked to death in the process.Sylvester is in pursuit of Tweety, chasing him to the top of a building. Sylvester falls from the building , crashes on to the sidewalk  and dies. The spirit of his first life approaches two escalators and takes the "down"  one (since the one going "up"  and ends up in Hell. Instead of another staircase, there is a Satanic bulldog , who welcomes a terrified Sylvester and realizes that he must goad Sylvester into giving up his remaining eight lives, so he asks life #1 to sit on a bench to wait for the others. Sylvester wakes up and Tweety tells him he's in trouble for breaking the sidewalk . Sylvester has had enough and tells Tweety he doesn't even know what "trouble" is and orders him to get lost. The bulldog's spirit reminds him that he has eight lives left, so Sylvester starts the chase up again. He chases Tweety around a moving steamroller but gets flattened, sending life #2 through the street and into Hades. The flat #2 gets up and sits beside #1. The chase then continues through an amusement park. They both run into a dog's mouth entranceway to the fun house, but Sylvester steps back out, takes one look at the dog and is literally "frightened to death". As scared-white-as-a-sheet life #3 takes his place on the waiting bench, the cat recovers and finds Tweety amongst the moving targets in a shooting gallery. He climbs into the targets to get at his prey but is shot several times in rapid succession. With each shot, lives 4 through 7 pop up on the bench. Sylvester bursts out of the gallery  and sees Tweety heading towards the roller coaster. As Tweety sits in the front seat, proclaiming "that puddy tat will never find me here", the cat takes the seat directly behind him. The train ascends the lift hill and proceeds to go through the drops and turns. Near the end of the ride on straight track, Sylvester stands up. Just as he's about to pummel an unsuspecting Tweety, Sylvester slams into the entranceway of a tunnel. Upon impact, the train carrying life #8 in the front seat runs through the tunnel and down Hades' twisted conveyor route that took Sylvester's first life down earlier. Recovering, Sylvester realized that he only has one life left. The bulldog again goads him to go after Tweety, but Sylvester screams "No, no, no! I don't want him! I don't want him!" and runs off. He decides to move into a bank vault with several cans of food, commenting that he'll be safe in there and nothing can happen to him. Later that night, two bank robbers  try to break into the safe, but fail when they use too much nitroglycerine and end up killing themselves and Sylvester. As the three of them go down the escalator conveyor to Hades, one of the robbers tells the other: "Yer used too much, Mugsy." The disgruntled #9 adds: "Now he tells him!"Shemp has been ill with a toothache for quite some time. The Stooges' friend Claude , gives Moe and Larry some specific instructions on how to cure the toothache, which, of course, they misinterpret every which way possible. After finally yanking the troublesome tooth, Claude suggests they take Shemp on a camping trip for a little R&R. Since the Stooges do not own a car, Claude offers to sell them a car that turns out to be a "lemon". The trio run into a series of mishaps trying to get the car to work, including a flat tire that lands Moe's foot under the car. After all is said and done, Shemp realizes that he feels better after all.The cartoon opens with the drunk stork talking to himself in the woods, while the gorilla baby he is supposed to deliver walks out of his bag. The stork is shocked to find that he has no baby to deliver. He has to find that new baby or he'll be kicked out of the Stork Club. Coincidentally, what scene should appear next... none other than Bugs Bunny, who is singing "I dream of Genie, she's a light brown hare..." while roasting a carrot not too far from him. The stork knocks him out with a stick and takes him to the gorilla house, as the new baby. The bag is closed and they are both excited, until they open the bag, which reveals Bugs. Elvis  goes to get a club to hit Bugs with, but the mother  stops him. MAMA explains "no matter what he looks like, he's still your son!" Bugs Bunny awakens, and is not about to assume position of a baby gorilla, so he tries to get away, to which his gorilla mother responds with a spanking for trying to run away. Elvis growls at Bugs when mother gorilla prompts him to "kiss your son". So she hits him over the head with a rolling pin, to get him to stop scaring the "baby". When Bugs saw that, he said to himself "Hey! this promises to be fun! Eh, so I'll be a monkey". From that point on Bugs decides to make Elvis life miserable. As Elvis rocks Bugs cradle rather unpleasantly, he tries to sneak away from Bugs who responds with a horrid tantrum "Waah, I wanna drinka water! Waah, I wanna drinka water!"; to which Elvis responds by dumping a bucket of water over him. The scene changes and they're outdoors, where MAMA tells Elvis to "play horsey with baby". Elvis plays for a few seconds then sends Bugs flying up into the air, then lands on Elvis; to which he responds by chasing Bugs. To Bugs best of luck, MAMA is nearby who soon takes control of the situation by clobbering Elvis with the rolling pin, then Bugs does the same while saying "bad ol' daddy"  MAMA leaves Bugs in the care of Elvis once more, this time with Bugs hitting Elvis constantly over the head with a baseball bat. MAMA walks away while saying "yeah that's it, keep baby happy". Elvis then takes the bat and breaks it in two, but Bugs yells "MAMA", and Elvis decides to replace the bat for Bugs; rather that letting MAMA know what just happened. While this is happening the stork is already taking to MAMA about his mistake, then gives her their real baby, Elvis hears MAMA yelling: "Elvis look! The Stork brought us our real baby". Bugs finally appreciates the danger he is in, and tried to run away. Then he crosses a rope bridge and tries to keep Elvis at bay threatening to cut it if he crosses it; Elvis instead pulls the entire opposing cliff-side to him in one effortless yank of the rope. He tries to hit Bugs, but he got away to the bottom of the cliff. When Elvis sees him, he throws a huge boulder toward Bugs. Bugs has no idea that there's a boulder coming towards him, but moves away when he sees MAMA coming to say: "ELVIS! Guess what the baby said?" while she steps right into the spot where the boulder should land! Elvis realizes the misfortune of what just happened, and tries to apologize to MAMA, but she begins to hit him with the rolling pin off-screen. Bugs says: "I'd like to see him eeh-ooh-aah-ooh and but his way outta this one", while the stork mistakenly delivers a baby to Bugs. The baby turns out to be Daffy. Daffy closes the cartoon by kissing and hugging Bugs and saying: "Ooh, I love you mommy!".The story begins with Foghorn being forced by his domineering wife to remain in the henhouse to sit on an egg that is about to hatch while his wife goes out to play bridge. The hen warns Foghorn not to leave the egg unattended, to which Foghorn replies: "Yes, dreamboat" but then changes "dreamboat" to "tugboat" when the hen is out of earshot. The Dawg sees that Foghorn cannot leave and takes advantage of the situation by lobbing a watermelon at him, which breaks over Foghorn's head. As Foghorn gets up to retaliate, the Dawg states that Foghorn better not leave the egg, or the Dawg can tell Foghorn's "old lady" that he left. Foghorn then figures that he needs to find someone to sit on the egg for him, so that he can extract revenge on the Dawg. Henery, dressed as an Indian, is hunting for chickens when he spots Foghorn in the henhouse. Henery shoot him with a toy arrow, causing Foghorn to shriek. Foghorn turns the tables on Henery by telling him that he needs to hunt a chicken his own size, like the one in the unhatched egg. Foghorn leads Henery to believe that he can have the chicken once it hatches, but tells Henery he need to sit on the egg first to keep it warm. Free from his commitment, Foghorn goes to the Dawg's house and spanks him with a wooden plank, then as the Dawg attempts to give chase, Foghorn traps him in a stockade and then places light bulbs around the Dawg's head. Foghorn then flips and electrical switch and the lights begin to blink, then the words "Eat At Joe's" appear in the Dawg's nose, as if it were a neon sign. Foghorn returns to the henhouse only to see Henery attempting to hatch the egg by breaking it with a wooden mallet. Foghorn stops Henery, but absorbs a blow to his head in the process. Henery tells Foghorn that he is tired of waiting and wants a chicken now. Foghorn speculates that the egg in the nest is a "slow-hatching egg" and offers a faster hatching one to Henery. The faster egg is in reality a grenade disguised to look like an egg . Foghorn tells Henery to slip the egg/grenade underneath the Dawg so it will hatch. Henery complies, and the egg explodes, leaving the Dawg on his back with a breakfast egg on his stomach. The Dawg tells Henery that they were the vicitms of a joke by Foghorn, and the Dawg suggests that he and Henery play a joke back on Foghorn. The Dawg has Henery lure Foghorn away from the nest so that Henery can steal the egg and bring it to the Dawg, who will then tell Foghorn's wife that Foghorn has "deserted the nest." Henery brings the egg to the Dawg, who then walks to a telephone to call Mrs. Leghorn at her bridge game. A chase occurs where the Dawg, Henery, and Foghorn are all trying to obtain the egg as it passes between them. Mrs. Leghorn emerges from her bridge club with a large rolling pin, on the warpath, and retrieves the egg herself after hitting Foghorn with the rolling pin. Mrs. Leghorn walks away and Henery reappears with a small tomahawk saying that he will he-scalp Foghorn, who does not believe that the tiny tomahawk can hurt anyone. Henery then scalps Foghorn as the cartoon irises out: "Of course, I could be wrong.".Louie's Sweet Shop is a frequent victim of the local neighborhood kids' baseball games. The Bowery Boys think that a nearby vacant lot would be perfect for the kids to play ball, and keep out of trouble. Slip and Sach go to visit the owners of the lot at their home As it turn out, the owners are completely insane. Dereck, a mad scientist, wants a brain for his gorilla. His brother Anton wants a brain for his robot, Gorog. Their sister Amelia need to give food to her man-eating tree, while their niece Francine is a vampire. Feeling that Slip and Sach are perfect for their personal needs, the family asks the duo to spend the night. The boys soon catch on to the family's schemes, causing a frantic chase through the house. Louie, Butch, and Chuck visit the home to search for Slip and Sach, but it's not too long before they too get caught into the action.Babysitter Jeannie is instructed to look after the baby while Joan goes out. However, Jeannie pays more attention to the telephone than her actual babysitting. In the midst of Tom and Jerry's usual fighting, they see a baby crawling out of its pram. Any attempt to return the baby to where it came from simply results in the baby escaping from the pram again. The baby crawls into Spike's dog house, and Tom, thinking that he has got the baby, is carrying Spike in his hands, and is promptly attacked. This time, Tom angrily brings the baby back to Jeannie herself, who hits Tom over the head with a broom thinking Tom has taken the baby. Realising that the baby is no longer worth the trouble, Tom does nothing the next time that it crawls from its pram. However, he and Jerry are forced to react after the baby crawls out into the street and onto a construction site. The baby crawls from one steel beam to another while the cat and mouse can only look on. Jerry manages to catch up, and saves the baby from crawling off a wooden plank and plummeting, by grabbing falls, but he is then caught by Tom. Tom attempts to put the baby's diaper back on, but in the impending confusion, ends up putting the diaper on himself while the baby crawls off, nonchalantly. Tom and Jerry catch up with the baby, only to lose it again, and fearing that it has crawled into a cement mixer, the cat and mouse dive straight in, only to find that the baby never did enter the mixer but instead playing with a hammer. The baby then playfully bonks Tom on the head. Later on, Jeannie is in panic, crying, telling a police officer that she was babysitting, took her eye off the baby for "one teensy minute", and the baby was gone. She then sees the baby saying: "There's the baby!". Tired, Tom and Jerry arrive, Jeannie grabs the baby while the two try to escape. A policeman arrests them for stealing a baby, assuming they were babynappers. In a police car, the police officer isn't taking Tom and Jerry's explanation. The baby crawls off past the police car and into the distance and Tom, Jerry and the officer look on the baby, both of them are right. They are surprised.On his deathbed, Shemp warns Moe and Larry to behave themselves or he will come back and haunt them. After Shemp's arrival to heaven, his Uncle Mortimer  contemplates whether Shemp will remain or go to Hell. Then the Devil  appears in a burst of flame to tempt Shemp with a sultry dancer, Hellen Blazes. Uncle Mortimer intervenes, promising Shemp eternity in Heaven if he returns to Earth unseen and unheard and reforms Moe and Larry. Meanwhile, one "Mr. Heller"  is giving Moe and Larry some "devillishy good ideas," such as conning a wealthy couple into financing the production of fountain pens that write under whipped cream. Shemp sabotages their demonstration but accidentally starts a fire. The scene fades back to Shemp's bedroom. It has all been a dream, but Shemp is on fire because he fell asleep smoking in bed.As Tom chases after Jerry, he suddenly spots an attractive female cat and falls head over heels in love with her, dangling out his tongue as she giggles. Jerry, frustrated, can only stand there and look on. Just then, a little green devil  appears, presumably as Jerry's "evil nature" . He convinces Jerry, Tom is trouble when he is with a dame. The devil recalls the time when Tom met a female cat on the beach, leading to a flashback of 1947's Salt Water Tabby, where Jerry's interference embarrassed Tom, and lead to Tom shooting Jerry into the sea through a fizzy cola bottle. The devil then reminds Jerry of the time when Tom invited a feline over for a meal in 1945's The Mouse Comes to Dinner, where Jerry was forced to serve the food and blow Tom's soup. The frustrated mouse spit Tom's soup in his face, which caused Tom to place the spoon that Jerry is standing on, directly above a candle flame, which burned Jerry's bottom and feet, lauching the mouse into a block of butter to cool off . After that, Jerry is reminded of the time Tom fell in love with a cow-girl in 1950's Texas Tom . Tom confidently strided up to the cat and smoked a roll-up cigarette , which blew out the word "Howdy" in smoke. Back in the garden, the devil and Jerry spy on Tom flirting suggestively. They realise that Tom is planning to serenade his lover soon. The devil asks Jerry if he can take that again, reminding him of 1946's Solid Serenade, where Tom sang Is You Is Or Is You Ain't My Baby, which woke Jerry up in the process and destroying his home. The devil sends Jerry on his way to stir up trouble, armed with a hatpin, mini TNT, and some matches. As Jerry marches over towards Tom, he suddenly spots an attractive female mouse and falls head over heels in love with her, dangling out his tongue as she giggles. The devil, frustrated, laments the trouble with dames. Just then, he suddenly spots an attractive female devil and falls head over heels in love with her, dangling out his tongue as she giggles.The Stooges wake up one bright morning and happily realize that they are about to get married. After breakfast, they start cleaning house. The usual antics occur as the boys make a near shambles of their home. The trio try to reupholster a davenport, but end up clobbering Moe on several counts. First, Larry attempts to cut the upholstering with a scissor and ends up trimming Moe's sportcoat. Then, to speed things up, they pour the upholstering tacks into a machine gun and aim at the davenport. The rapid fire release works well at first, but Larry and Joe argue over who gets the next round, leading the rifle firing right at Moe's gluteus maximus. After Larry and Joe quickly remove the tacks, Moe manages to swallow one. After all is said and done, the house is neat and clean.  The Stooges then head their separate ways to marry their sweetheart — unaware they are all engaged to the same girl . In rapid succession, Larry, Moe, and then Joe appear at their fiancee's home with engagement rings of varying sizes. When the boys discover their error, a nutty fight ensues. Moe and Larry eventually knock each other cold. Joe, however, realizes that the gold digger is about to make a quick exit, and fires the tack-filled rifle at her buttocks, calling her a "jezebel."Louie is owed money by a stable-owner and sends Slip and the boys over to collect the debt. They return with a horse, My Girl, as payment. Local gangsters want the horse and switch their horse, Tarzana, for the gang's horse. They boys discover the ruse and the horses are switched several more times. In the end, Sach rides the real My Girl in a horse race, beating Tarzana and the gangsters.It is 11 o’clock at night at a lighthouse on a small island, and the clock's pendulum is intermittently deflecting the light from the beacon into a mousehole downstairs, keeping the resident mouse wide awake. The baggy-eyed rodent crawls out of bed, climbs the steps to the beacon, and yanks the plug out of the outlet to turn it off. Polly the parrot immediately flies into the lightkeeper’s bedroom squawking “Lights out! Lights out!” The lightkeeper wakes up shouting, “Grrrreat Scott! It’s that crrrrazy moose  again!” Consequently, a cargo carrier named Australia crashes into the rocks on the shore of the island, causing several wooden crates to spill overboard. The frustrated captain admonishes the lightkeeper to keep the beacon lit, and the lightkeeper and Polly apologize for the mishap. Hippety Hopper, a baby kangaroo intended for delivery to a city zoo, is inside one of the fallen crates, and after the ship departs, he hops off within the crate until it breaks apart against the rocks, setting him free. While all this is going on, Sylvester is downstairs sleeping. The lightkeeper abruptly wakes him up, rebuking, “While you sleep, that crrrrazy moose is loose in the hoose!” , then orders him to go upstairs to catch him and to "Hurrrry up, now, hurrrry up, now" . Sylvester tells Polly he can catch the mouse in a matter of seconds, and Polly starts counting the seconds. Hippety then hops into the lighthouse and follows Sylvester up the stairs. Sylvester sets a mousetrap and attaches a string. When he hears a snap, he pulls on the string and sees he has caught Hippety, whom he thinks is a giant mouse, which makes his jaw drop to the floor. Sylvester then shoots like a bullet down the stairs as Polly keeps counting , and dashes to the bathroom, thinking he must have “lighthouse eyes” or “stigmatism”. He puts in eyedrops, then, grabbing a bottle of vitamins, gulps them down and showers himself with them. Meanwhile, the mouse frees Hippety from the trap, and Hippety returns the favor by pulling the plug out of the wall.  Sylvester runs out of the bathroom, tells Polly “Keep counting, buster” , runs upstairs, puts the plug back in and pounds a few nails over it to prevent Hippety and the mouse from pulling it out again. He then prepares to knock Hippety out with a club and swings at him when he sees Hippety’s shadow approaching, but misses and sees that it is only the mouse wielding a mallet, which he uses to slam Sylvester’s foot. The mouse then zips behind the elevator door. Sylvester pounds on the door, and Hippety kicks him into the wall. Sylvester then sees Hippety and the mouse behind the door playing a back-and-forth switcheroo, making him think he must be hallucinating. Sylvester then charges back toward the elevator and Sylvester, Hippety and the mouse get into a scuffle, which ends with Hippety sending Sylvester tumbling down the stairs. By this time, Polly has counted more than 70,000 seconds , but the punch-drunk feline goes back for more, assuring Polly he will get the mouse “quicker than you can count up to Jack Robinson”. The mouse cuts the extension cord in two places with a pair of scissors, putting the lights out again, and the furious lightkeeper stalks Sylvester with a club threatening to “fix that good-fer-nothin’ pussycat”. In a panic, Sylvester attempts to reconnect the cord and gets a massive electric jolt, which turns the lights back on  and spares him a beating...for the moment. As Sylvester tapes the cord back together, the mouse rigs dynamite with the cord wrapped around it. It explodes, completely destroying the cord beyond any chance of repair. Immediately, the lightkeeper runs up the stairs and pummels Sylvester with the club. In the final scene, the lightkeeper is sleeping soundly, as are Hippety and the mouse, while Sylvester is serving as the beacon, hooked up to a battery with the light projecting through his eyes. To this, he laments, “I never thought just being a pussycat could be so complicated!”{{Plot}}  Spike is building the doghouse of his dreams. However, Tom chases Jerry through the chassis of the house and also pulls a board off it to attack the mouse with. When Jerry perches on Spike's head, even lying on top of his dream house does not stop it from being smashed. Tom bolts, but Spike stomps on his tail, then dusts himself off and wrenches the cat facing in his direction. He issues Tom an ultimatum: leave his dream house alone or suffer the consequences . Tom is thrown into a power pole, shaking a mailbox onto his head. Tom goes behind a wall and frees himself, then peeks his head around the corner to spot Jerry jogging. Both cat and mouse dig under the dream house during the chase, and Tom drags Spike with him until he is bopped on the head with the dog's hammer. Tom falls backwards out of control and dumps Spike on top of the dream house before the dog can avoid the collision; Spike drums his fingers as Tom escapes. Spike is ever more vigilant as he paints the next iteration red; meanwhile, Tom is still giving chase through the garden. When Tom is tripped up by a rollerskate from Jerry and knocks the dream house out of position, Spike doesn't notice and continues painting. When he opens his eyes, Tom's tail is painted red. Tom proceeds to threaten the dream house with destruction by ax, and mocks the dog by using Spike's nose as a noisemaker. Spike attempts to attack Tom again, and is delayed until the blade falls off the ax handle, with a sound of " bimperdibim". Before he gets beat up by the angry dog, Tom slams Spike on the head with the handle and steals away as Spike falls on his own dream house. Tom hides, but comes across Jerry in no time. He spots a roller and attempts to mow Jerry down with it; Spike, sleeping in his completed house, spots the chase aimed right at him. He holds out his hand, ordering the cat to stop, but Tom mows right over him, making an arrow shape. Tom chases Jerry into his mousehole and lights a firework, which Jerry promptly throws into Spike's dog house. Tom tries to remove the firework, but is caught by Spike. Tom retreats innocently while Spike starts to look inside; Tom discourages the dog from doing so, but Spike pushes him away and looks inside anyway. The firework explodes, leaving Spike in a blackface sunflower appearance. Tom chases Jerry up the power pole seen earlier and chops it down. Spike is repairing his house when he spots the falling behemoth. He frantically moves to the front yard, where the very end of the pole falls and smashes his home. Spike, annoyed, builds his next home in a tree and hammers "Home sweet home". Quite unfortunately for him, Tom has followed Jerry to this tree and chops it down as Jerry climbs to the top of it; Spike mutters "Timber" in frustration. Spike has finally achieved peace and quiet in his house, and Jerry is sleeping on top of it. Tom spots the mouse from through a hole in the fence and lassoes him. Jerry wakes up as he's being pulled off the house and pulls the rope back, launching Tom into the fence. Extremely miffed, Tom pulls back, but Jerry has hooked the rope to Spike's house and the dog is pulled all the way into the fence, destroying his house again. Tom tries five more times to get Spike through the fence, jolting the dog each time, and then uses the nearby fire hydrant as a pulley to squeeze Spike through the hole in the fence. The weight of Spike flattens Tom into the fence, which causes the cat to realize who he is holding. Tom tosses Spike over the fence and runs away, but Spike grabs Tom's tail through the hole and pulls him back repeatedly just as Tom had done to him. Then Spike and Jerry are working as partners to finish Spike's house for good, with Tom as his slave, ready to receive whippings from the dog. Tom is forced to do every single task at once.{{Plot}} As Spike is happily prancing along the backyard, he steps on a tack and yells for help. Jerry removes the tack with a hammer after hearing the dog's pained cries, and as a reward, Spike becomes Jerry's protector, providing him with a bell to ring whenever he is in trouble. Jerry walks away, carefree and pleased with his good deed. Tom sees a good opportunity to catch his unaware rival and hides until Jerry walks around the corner, catching the mouse by surprise. After snatching up Jerry, Tom becomes curious as to what the bell could be for and rings it. Spike drops right on top of him and throws him onto the concrete twice, then picks him up onto his back and prepares one last move, spins around and slams the cat to the concrete, who breaks apart and reforms in the space of a second. Spike returns the bell to Jerry and skips away, but not without being seen by Tom. Making the connection, the cat tries an alternative by covering the mouse with a flowerpot such that he cannot ring the bell; unfortunately for Tom, there is a hole in the bottom, which the mouse sticks the ringing bell out of. Spike's fist extends itself from clear across the block and knocks Tom into a gumball machine, which then falls back onto the cat such that gumballs roll out of his head. Eventually, under pain of canine catastrophe, Tom is forced to become Jerry's "slave" around the house. Tom sets out five trays of cheese for Jerry, and while the mouse sniffs one, Tom attempts to filch the bell. Jerry thwarts him and eats a big wedge of cheese, causing himself to expand to the size of the wedge. Meanwhile, Tom reads the daily paper and is delighted to notice this headline: LEASH LAW PASSED: Public safety puts dogs on leash. Pleased with his freedom from both mouse and dog, Tom jaunts outside with the paper and 'tsk's at the dog while pulling at his leash. Tom measures the leash's length, draws a line in the grass, and slaps the dog with the paper. Spike attempts to bite at Tom repeatedly, but the leash barely restrains the dog. Tom pies Spike, smashes his head between cymbals, and punches him with a boxing glove, and then lets the dog's chomping teeth turn a log into a baseball bat. At his leisure, Tom knocks the dog out with it and then uses it as a pool cue to shoot Spike back into his doghouse. Tom returns, ecstatic, to Jerry and bops him on the head, and when the mouse rings his bell, no response is heard. Tom slaps him again and offers the mouse four other bells as further embarrassment. When these fail to work, Jerry realizes the truth and flees with his small bell. Tom corners him and beats him silly to the point that Jerry swallows the bell. Jerry runs to Spike's doghouse and rings himself, pleading for help. Spike, with sad eyes, presents his leash. Tom takes a break from chasing Jerry to tantalize Spike again, and holds out a lead pipe as Spike angrily tries to bite the cat again. All the dog's teeth fall out, and Tom nonchalantly sweeps them back up and returns them. Picking up on the pattern, Spike angrily rubs out the line, draws a new one in a spot he can reach and plops back down innocently. Tom chases Jerry both ways and stops to torment Spike again, but Spike lands directly on the cat this time. Realizing he's been tricked, the feline leaps out of his skin! Before Spike can process this information, Tom steals his skin back and escapes into a croquet field. Jerry runs through the field until he sees Tom, but cannot avoid being pelted by Tom's mallet. As Jerry hits the starting post, the bell is expelled from his stomach; Tom catches both the mouse and the bell and continuously rings the bell as the cartoon fades to a new scene. Tom has now pressed Jerry into servitude, using the bell as his signal. Jerry brings Tom's tray of food to him and falls under its weight. While Tom gobbles a turkey leg, Jerry reads the paper which shows the leash law's reversal: LEASH LAW LIFTED: Happy hounds hail freedom. Ecstatic, Jerry hits Tom with the newspaper, causing Tom's turkey to be lodged in his throat. Before the cat can capture him, Jerry rings his bell, and nothing happens for the moment. Tom, still believing the dog to be tied up based on Spike's non-appearance, rings the bell and bops Jerry alternately. Spike, carrying a newspaper himself, sneaks behind Tom and slams him over the head. Clueless, Tom rings the bell and is slapped again. Tom then rings a third time and ducks the newspaper swing, then peeks behind him and briefly sees Spike; the dog hits the cat a third time, cordially returns the bell to Jerry and then engages Tom in a brutal fight. After the brawl, Jerry and Spike are strolling down the street, with Tom inside a dog's leash and collar. Spike kicks Tom whenever Jerry rings his bell.In a plot reminiscent of 1947's The Invisible Mouse, Quacker is a singing duck whom George bought for Joan. After nearly being swallowed alive by Tom when George and Joan are out at dinner, Quacker escapes to Jerry's mouse hole, where the two become friends. When Tom catches Quacker, Jerry trips Tom up with some extension cord, causing Tom to lose his grip on Quacker, sending him straight into a tub of vanishing cream. An invisible Quacker is able to come to Jerry's rescue, where he shows him the secret of the vanishing cream. Thus invisible, the two gleefully torment and bamboozle poor Tom by teaching him a lesson as they eat his watermelon, vanish and seemingly cut half of his tail off with a pair of scissors, and leave him with a short tail, and force him to eat aspirin, and kick him out of the house, until he overhears their secret and renders himself invisible, and finally when Jerry and the duck think Tom is gone, he hits them both with a coal shovel, enough to give Jerry and Quacker their defeat and comeuppance.Jerry and Nibbles are two mouseketeers who decide to help themselves to a lavish banquet, which Tom has been ordered to guard from the King's Mouseketeers with his life; failure to do so, and he will be executed. Jerry and Nibbles enter the castle hall through a stained glass window, through a suit of armor, and by parachuting down to the table. They unsuspectingly catch Tom's attention by showering him with champagne. Later, Nibbles is helping himself to some of the food while singing Alouette to himself, when Tom emerges behind him and pokes him with his sword. The little mouse yells angrily. Before Nibbles can get away, Tom impales the little mouse's cape with his rapier. Jerry manages to stab Tom in the rear-end and rescue Nibbles. Jerry puts custard in Tom's face launching a swashbuckling fencing display against Tom, ending in Tom catching Jerry. Nibbles launches an axe toward Tom and it slices off half of Tom's back, and Nibbles hides in some fruit. Nibbles runs away and falls into a drink - but Jerry saves him by hurling a tomato at Tom, as well as multiple vegetables which Tom impales on his rapier; heating them up and eats them like a shishkebab. Nibbles walks out of the drink, drunk, and pokes Tom in the bottom. Tom screams in pain and jumps up. Nibbles waves his sword while saying, "Touche, pussy cat!" but as he runs away Tom catches him. Jerry makes the save by hitting Tom on the head with a gada so much that Tom falls through the table, which leads into Tom and Jerry having a sword fight. While this goes on, Nibbles brings along a cannon and stuffs it with everything that is on the banquet table. He lights the cannon and it explodes. As the smoke disappears, Jerry and Nibbles are walking triumphantly down the street with stolen banquet food. Suddenly, in an unusually morbid ending, they see a guillotine blade coming down, strongly suggesting that Tom was executed, though off-screen in compliance with the Hays Office. Both mice gulp, and then Nibbles sighs, "Pauvre, pauvre, pussycat",  and shrugs: "C'est la guerre."  Then the two Mouseketeers resume their victorious march off into the distance.The credits roll over a stylised music shop. The names of cast and crew and title of the feature are superimposed over the various instruments and instrument cases. The scene then cuts to an owl, who rushes to a schoolhouse full of bird children as a drumroll is played on a snare. A brief musical section introduces us to "the subject for today": the study of musical instruments. The owl explains to the class  that all music originates from four core sounds: toot , whistle , plunk  and boom .  The film then jumps to a group of cavemen, each of whom have discovered the nuclear form of one of the above sounds. We begin with a portly caveman who has discovered that blowing through a cow's horn produces a pleasing "toot". We advance to ancient Egypt in 2000 BC, where the caveman discovers that metal horns produce even better sounds. He celebrates by breaking into a two-note jazz solo as Egyptian characters painted on the walls boogie down. We return to the owl, who explains that making a trumpet longer made its tone lower. We then visit a Roman trumpeter who crashes into a column and bends his horn into a grotesque shape... however, he soon discovers that despite this change in form, the trumpet does not sound any different: it is possible to change the horn's shape without changing the pitch. However, as the owl explains, this horn can only produce certain notes; in order to get all of the notes required for even a simple tune, you would need four horns of different lengths. But if we create a horn with valves, we can effectively have four horns in one, and this fact is celebrated with another jazz solo.  We return to the cavemen, where the next one is trying to impress his "cavegirl" by blowing on a tube of grass; he further discovers that adding holes to the tube allows him to modify the sound in interesting ways . The cavegirl is impressed, but then a rival caveman appears, bonks the cavegirl on the head with his club, and drags her off by the hair . The owl explains that this system of holes is the basis for every woodwind instrument, including the clarinet and the saxophone.  The next caveman has discovered that plucking on his bow produces a pleasant sound. An offscreen choir explains  how to create a simple harp by adding a resonator, some extra strings and tuning pegs, and rearranging it all . The owl mentions that you can either pluck the harp, or play it with a bow. We then briefly visit several periods in history, where we see several string instruments being played in similar fashion, and finish with a string quartet.  The final caveman beats on his chest to produce a "boom", and hits other parts of his body and his club for other sounds. The owl escorts us through history and explains how a variety of percussion instruments emerged from this basic theory, ranging from rattles to complex drum kits and even the bass drums of marching bands.  The chorus recaps that all music, from the banjo to Latin percussion to "music oriental" to a grand symphony, emerges from the four nuclear sounds.As a street painter paints out a white line in the middle of a road, Penelope is being chased by a dog and runs right under the paint tank and getting a white line across her spine whilst the dog crashes into the tank and painter. Pepe emerges from a fishing boat, scaring the boatman and sinking the boat. Pepe spies Penelope on a beach. He rushes and catches her with a few smooches while she wriggles her way out. As she scurries away, Pepe grabs and rides her tail until he slams into a post. After a bit of daydreaming, Pepe resumes his chase. Pepe pursues Penelope but slips on the sand and falls down a sea cliff into the sea. As Penelope reaches the rocks below, Pepe emerges embracing her and offering to get her a glass of water. When Pepe returns with the glass of water, he finds she has run off. Pepe finds, embraces and kisses Penelope on a boat but Penelope makes her escape in the sea with a diving mask and oxygen tank. Pepe follows her wearing a mask and flippers but no oxygen tank . A shark approaches and eats Pepe, but Pepe's stink makes the shark spit him out and flee on the beach. For a long time Penelope swims under the sea until sunset where she surfaces to find a nearby island. As she removes her diving gear, she finds Pepe waiting for her. As Pepe endlessly chases Penelope, the island is revealed to be heart-shaped from birdseye view.Wilby Daniels is constantly misunderstood by his father, Wilson. Wilson thinks Wilby is crazy half the time because of his elder son's often dangerous inventions. As a retired mailman who often ran afoul of canines, he has a hatred of dogs, and he can't understand why his younger son, Montgomery "Moochie" wants a dog so badly. Wilby and his self-centered rival Buzz Miller take a new French girl, Francesca Andrassé, to the local museum. Wilby gets separated from the other two, who leave without him. Wilby ends up in a new wing, where he encounters former acquaintance Professor Plumcutt , who tells him all about mystical ancient beliefs, including the legend of the Borgia family, who used shape-shifting as a weapon against their enemies. On the way out, Wilby collides with a table of rings, ending up with one in the cuff of his pants which he finds later. It is the cursed Borgia ring, and when he reads the inscription on it, he turns into Chiffon, Francesca's shaggy Bratislavian sheepdog. Confused about what has happened, Wilby as a dog goes to Professor Plumcutt, who says he has invoked the Borgia curse upon himself, which can only be broken through a heroic act of selflessness. After getting chased out of his own house by his father , Wilby has a series of misadventures, as he constantly switches back and forth between human and dog forms. Only Moochie and Professor Plumcutt know his true identity when he is a dog, as Wilby has spoken to them both in dog form. Finally, he goes to a local dance  and while dancing turns into a dog. He runs out quickly, and goes home. The next day, Wilby  and Moochie are talking when Franceska's butler Stefano comes out and drags Wilby into the house. Stefano and Dr. Valasky , discuss plans to steal a government secret, and Wilby  overhears. Unfortunately for him, he transforms into human Wilby right in front of the spies and is discovered, but not before he heard Dr. Valasky expressing his wish to get rid of his own daughter. The spies capture him and force Franceska to leave with them, leaving Wilby  bound and gagged in the closet. Moochie sneaks into the house after Dr. Valasky, Stefano and an unwilling Franceska leave, and discovers Wilby, as a dog, bound in the closet. Wilby reveals the secret to his dumbfounded father, who goes to the authorities, only to be accused of being either crazy or a spy himself. When Buzz appears at the Valasky residence to take Franceska on a date, Wilby  steals Buzz's hot rod. Buzz reports this to Officers Hansen and Kelly, who are in disbelief until they see the shaggy dog driving Buzz's hot rod. Mr. Daniels and Moochie follow Buzz and the police, who end up chasing everyone. The spies attempt to leave via boat, but the police call in the harbor patrol to apprehend Dr. Valasky and stop his boat. Wilby  swims up and wrestles with the men, as Franceska gets knocked out of the boat. He then saves her life and drags her ashore, breaking the curse. The final transformation occurs when a net drops over Buzz and Chiffon, who growls at Buzz. Wilby suddenly reverts to human form, shouting at Buzz, who is dumbfounded that Wilby suddenly appeared out of nowhere. Mr. Daniels and Chiffon are declared heroes, Franceska leaves for Paris without her evil adoptive father and former butler (both of whom have been arrested for espionage; and she gives Chiffon to the Daniels family for them to keep as thanks. Since Mr. Daniels has gotten such commendation for foiling a spy ring due to "his love of dogs", he can no longer have his dog-hating attitude, and allows Moochie to care for Chiffon as he wanted a dog all along. Wilby and Buzz decide to forget their rivalry over Francesca and resume their friendship.The story involves Bugs Bunny eluding the Big Bad Wolf and his nephew. After the elder wolf is unable to catch Bugs through traditional means, he gets inspiration from his nephew who gives him ideas for catching Bugs based on nursery rhymes. First, the wolves lure Bugs into playing Little Red Riding Hood so the Big Bad Wolf, who is playing Grandma, can trap Bugs. But Bugs escapes by putting hot coals from a fireplace into the bed that Big Bad is in. Next, Bugs plays Goldilocks in The Story of the Three Bears. Big Bad thinks that he has Bugs trapped again, and tries to get revenge by using hot coals on the bed that Bugs is supposed to be in. But instead Big Bad lights a fake dynamite stick attached to fake rabbit ears and the dynamite explodes in his face. Bugs then proceeds to explain to the exasperated Big Bad how he can have a rabbit for dinner, and the cartoon concludes with Big Bad and his nephew sharing dinner with Bugs, who says: "If you can't eat 'em, join 'em', as the cartoon fades out.The plot concerns a biological researcher, Professor Gerald Deemer, who is trying to prevent the food shortages which will result from the world's expanding population. With the help of atomic science, he invents a special nutrient on which animals can live exclusively, but which causes them to grow to many times their normal size. In his laboratory, he houses several oversized rodents and, inexplicably, a Mexican red rumped tarantula. When his researchers try the nutrient, they develop runaway acromegaly. One of them is driven mad, half destroys the lab , and attacks Deemer, injecting him with the solution. The tarantula is one of the creatures freed. As a result, Deemer gradually becomes more and more deformed while the now-gigantic tarantula ravages the countryside. A sympathetic doctor, Matt Hastings, and Deemer's female assistant, Stephanie Clayton, investigate the mystery of the clean-picked animal bones and eight-foot pools of arachnid venom, which the spider leaves behind: it also wrecks the Deemer lab. The spider is eventually destroyed, after several failed attempts, by a napalm attack launched from a jet fighter squadron. The film's poster, featuring a spider with two eyes instead of the normal eight, and carrying a woman in its fangs, does not represent any actual scene in the film.Tom sneaks into the kitchen to the fridge. He grabs a whole chicken and takes a couple of bites out of it before he hears George coming his way. Tom hurriedly shoves the chicken back into the refrigerator and hides. George, upon discovering the half-eaten chicken, concludes that either Tom or Spike is guilty and is determined to figure out which, even if it means X-raying them. Panicked, Tom frames Spike; he creates phony ink footprints leading from the sleeping dog to the refrigerator. As Tom moves to plant the chicken on Spike, a bright light flashes, and Jerry, holding a camera, runs off. Joan and George see the "evidence" implicating Spike and kick him out of the house. Spike laments being framed as he watches George and Joan allow Tom to gobble down the remainder of the chicken. Meanwhile, Jerry emerges from his darkroom, having made numerous copies of his photo of Tom framing Spike. Jerry plants copies of the photos in places where George or Joan are likely to see them. Tom is forced to use the guise of being a recklessly playful cat as he swoops in to destroy the photos before George and/or Joan see them. To make matters worse, Tom taunts Spike from inside, leading George to think that the cat has gone crazy. Jerry begins folding the photos into paper airplanes and tosses them towards Joan in the kitchen and George in the den. Tom swallows the airplane meant for Joan and begins frantically chasing the airplane headed towards George with a pair of scissors. Tom's efforts to stop the plane only serve to cut up George's newspaper and his trousers. George intercepts Tom right before the cat nearly cuts his head off. With Tom's tail in one hand, George catches the paper plane with his other hand and, as Tom prays for mercy, unfold it, discovering Tom's deception. As George kicks Tom out of the house, Jerry has his camera out again and photographs the moment. Joan and George let Spike back into the house and ask for forgiveness, which the dog gladly grants. Jerry then calls Spike over and gives him a present that he laughs heartily over; a photo of Tom getting kicked out of the house.Introduction: Wile E. Coyote is cooking some food in a tin bucket over a fire. He adds pepper and a drop of a brown liquid, and stirs the bucket and fishes out what is revealed to be a tin can. The Coyote then sits down on a rock and prepares to cut the can in half  before he realizes what he is eating, and then pushes the entire table setting off the rock table. "COYOTE - Eatibus Almost Anythingus". With a Beep-beep, the Roadrunner speeds by and throws the coyote rolling across the ground. The camera cuts to the Road Runner, who is currently a blur of motion, and freezes the clip temporarily to add his fictitious Latin name "Velocitus Delectiblus". Wile licks his lips, then dashes after his nemesis. The Road Runner taunts Wile E. with a Beep-beep before blasting into Mach 225, disappearing beyond the 10 mile horizon in only 5 frames of film, dusting up all the roads in the distance. Wile stops in mid-stride and points at the bird saying "Did you see that?", then thinks of his new plan. 1. The Coyote attaches a pointed blade to the end of his nose and plunges himself off a bow at the passing Road Runner, but instead spears through the trunk of a saguaro, which breaks out of the ground and falls over a cliff. 2. Wile then loads himself into a slingshot and cuts the string as the Road Runner dashes ahead of him, but nothing happens. He ducks out of the slingshot and puts his head into it to peer at the "faulty" string, but then it activates and pitches the Coyote onto the stone ground 10 feet away. 3. The Coyote lies in wait for the Road Runner to come around a turn and lights a cannon fuse, but instead of firing the cannonball, the entire cannon, with Wile on board, is fired backwards into a mountain wall. When Wile steps out of the cannon, it fires another ball into his face. 4. He then attempts to use a stone "wrecking ball" attached to a tree to hit the Roadrunner, but instead hits the trunk of the tree, which hammers him into the rock he is standing on. 5. Next, Wile simply rolls the ball down a hill out into the road, but it pitches up a stone serac and right back on top of its owner. 6. Wile covers a narrow canyon floor with Acme GREASE, but once again, a truck just happens to be approaching. He tries to run across the grease, but fails and is run over. The Road Runner easily glides over it, so he attempts to follow. However, each attempt moves him forward a negligible amount of distance until he finally collapses in the grease. 7. The Road Runner is then seen zipping to one end of a cliff and beeping at the Coyote on the other end, who attempts to swing over the canyon but only smacks into a plateau just underneath him. 8. Wile leaves out bird seed while he climbs to the top of the cliff and prepares his trap. The Road Runner zips up and munches down, while the Coyote lowers a dynamite stick on the end of a fishing line. Instead of blowing up the Road Runner, the flame travels up the line and back to the TNT box, which explodes on the Coyote. 9. He then creates a tar-and-feather machine based on his readings of How To Tar And Feather A Road Runner: 10th printing, and successfully tests it on a small cactus. Wile hides in a thin crevice with the machine pointed towards the road that the Road Runner traverses. Unfortunately, the emitters spin around and attack their owner, and the Roadrunner, as if it were the simplest thing in the world , holds up a sign saying: ROAD-RUNNERS ALREADY HAVE FEATHERS! 10. Wile prepares one final trap: a dynamite pit in the road. Just after he lights the fuse, the Road Runner stops short of him and beeps in his face, provoking a short chase that ends when he runs directly over his own exploding pit. Dejected, the charred Coyote walks off-camera and returns with a stand-up sign that says: Wanted: One gullible Coyote. Apply to manager of this theater. Then he goes back and returns with the Looney Tunes "That's all folks!" end-title card. The End. The title is a pun on "Guided Missile". That was one of the few Road Runner Cartoons that does not make use of the declining slide whistle used for the Coyote, when he falls down a cliff, or when he leaps up into the air and comes down, due to the scariness of the surprising beeping Road Runner, or when a boulder, or a bomb falls on the Coyote.Introduction: The Road Runner is in the middle of the road, and after surveying his surroundings, dashes at hyperspeed onto a low plateau , then continues to mountain roads and leaves dust clouds everywhere. Meanwhile, Wile E. Coyote  emerges from his hibernation and is soon fully awoken by a Beep-beep. He peeks over the plateau to see the Road Runner at the bottom and strides down the vertical edge with eating utensils, in pursuit of breakfast. The Road Runner taunts his nemesis by dodging at the last possible moment, allowing the coyote to slam into the rock floor. The chase moves to the real roads, and the Road Runner taunts him with a Beep-beep before blasting into Mach 187, disappearing beyond the 10 mile horizon in only 6 frames of film, causing Wile E.'s entire jaw to hang open and then drop out as he enters a cloud. The coyote trails dust as he reclines on a low rock to dream his next plan. 1. Wile E. covers an entire section of a canyon with glue, making sure to leave space for himself to stand. However, the approaching Beep-beep belongs to a truck and not the Road Runner, and thus the coyote lacks sufficient time to escape the glue; he tries anyway and cannot leap far enough before he gets stuck, and can only watch as he is flattened. Wile E. thus tries another method: covering a low rockface with glue and preparing, from a distance, to throw dynamite at the Road Runner. However, the bird's velocity causes the glue to part sideways, drowning Wile E. in his hiding place and preventing him from throwing the dynamite. After failing at this and at blowing out the fuse, he begins walking with his hips  in an effort to allow the wind to snuff or slow the burning fuse, then jumps into a nearby river; however, the explosive detonates about three feet above, and the coyote pauses in midair before he falls into the water. 2. A detour sign points through a hollow log, and the Road Runner "falls" for the trap by dashing in at full speed. The camera zooms out to show that the exit leads only to air, but does not show the Road Runner; it then cuts to him perched on the very edge of the log. Wile E. is puzzled and climbs into the log; the bird beeps and exits out a hole in the top, and the coyote peeks out after him, but his weight causes the log to tip over the cliff. 3. Now, the coyote hopes to flatten the bird with a 10,000-lb weight supported by a pair of pulleys. However, the weight doesn't drop when the coyote lets go of the rope, only falling on the coyote when he resumes the chase. Wile E. strolls into view postured like a walking barchair. 4. Seeing the Road Runner approach his cliff lair, Wile E. lights a sequence of fireworks attached to a lasso, but the Road Runner is actually running down a different cliff, and the coyote inertially spins the lasso until the hissing fireworks explode. 5. Next, Wile E. loads himself into a slingshot and retreats for maximum velocity, until he backs into a beeping Road Runner; the slingshot fires before he can grab the bird, and the coyote flies 2 feet above the ground, into a tunnel, and is squashed into a passing truck's grille. 6. Wile E. uses an outboard motor, a jim-dandy wagon, a wash tub, water, and roller skates to create a hydropowered wagon that will hopefully lead him on his quest. He soon passes a DANGER BRIDGE OUT sign and cannot stop the wagon from running off the bridge; he unties himself from the wagon as it rolls into thin air, but sees the rope dropping to the river below and, worst of all, the wagon arriving safely at the other end of the bridge! The coyote funereally waves at the camera before he plummets into the river. 7. Wile E. observes the Road Runner's trajectory across the mountain and ignites a rocket aimed at a particular location. The camera cuts to both the rocket and the Road Runner chicken-style until the rocket hits its target location, but just after his enemy. The rocket continues down through the mountain and out of a mine before giving up the ghost. Wile E. sighs with relief - and then the rocket explodes. 8. The coyote uses a female Road Runner costume to attract his counterpart, but  only attracts a rout of coyotes who chase him down the road like the scenes of Tom and Jerry's The Brothers Carry-Mouse-Off as the real Road Runner pulls into view with "THE END" sign. The End.Woody and Buzz are hotel bellhops busy staring at a magazine admiring the drop dead gorgeous French actress Ga Ga Gazoo who even manages to turn the heads of men in the publication. She is shown walking her dog, skiing and wearing a one piece bikini. Their dreams come true when they discover Miss Gazoo is about to be their next hotel guest. Woody and Buzz then aggressively compete for the attractive actress's affections. She thinks Woody is cute and tries to kiss him on the lips the minute she meets him but Buzz interferes. She subsequently sics her poodle on him. Eventually, the blonde bombshell chooses Woody Woodpecker over Buzz. Woody is invited to stay in Ga Ga Gazoo's hotel room.In a long shot of an Indian village way out West, all of the tepees have TV antennas, and some of the tepees are shops displaying Indian-made wares and merchandise. In the foreground is a millinery shop with a window full of feathered hats and coats, etc.; in the rear is a barber shop, complete with revolving barber pole. We discover Woody Woodpecker in the barber's chair reading a magazine, with Indian barber Buzz Buzzard stropping the blade of a tomahawk. Buzz tests the blade's sharpness by dropping a feather, which lands on the blade and slowly splits into two parts, each part floating in the air. Buzz trims the feathers on Woody's head, then, with "Feather Tonic," he gives Woody a vigorous scalp massage which, when finished, gives Woody's head the appearance of an Indian headdress, beautiful to behold. At this time, they discover a cute Indian maiden looking in the window and admiring a feathered bonnet, so they both zip out of the shop and tip their feathers to the maid. She continues to admire the bonnet, which carries a "$2,000.00 Wampum" price tag. She first asks Woody to buy the bonnet, but he's broke; she then asks Buzz, who's also without the necessary funds. The maid, with scorn, turns up her nose and walks away, leaving the two rejected swains very dejected and alone. Buzz then suddenly spies the beautiful feather-do that Woody has and, in a vision, dreams how it would look if transferred to the maid. With a malicious grin on his face, Buzz pulls out his tomahawk and starts for Woody, intending to acquire Woody's feather bonnet for the maid. From here on, there's a fast series of gags, with Buzz determined to get the feathers and Woody avoiding him at all times. Woody finally disposes of Buzz. In the final scene, we see Woody, his feathers all gone, now adorning the Indian maiden; Woody is stripped but happy.Wile E. Coyote captures his prey, Bugs Bunny, by forcing him into a sack. However, Bugs is easily able to escape his predicament by making two holes with his carrot. Bugs asks "What ya got in the bag, doc?", prompting Wile E. Coyote's long-winded explanation about how he is a genius. The bunny replaces himself with dynamite, and it isn't long before Wile E. Coyote is the victim of a pair of explosions, the second coming when he runs to the elevator. The determined coyote then builds his latest contraption: A do-it-yourself UNIVAC Electronic Brain, which he consults for suggestions in capturing Bugs. The machine provides the recommendations after Wile E. supplies key words. Wile E. Coyote's efforts include the following: * "Rabbit," "in hole," and "combination lock." The UNIVAC suggests burglary methods, providing a combination to the door of Bugs Bunny's hole. Wile E. Coyote breaks in that night, but slips on a banana peel Bugs nonchalantly places at the base of his hole. The Coyote falls into the Coyote Disposal and over a cliff. * "Breakfast," "toaster," and "carrots," resulting in Wile E. Coyote placing hand grenades in Bugs Bunny's carrot toaster. The grenades spring right back at Coyote and explode in his face. Bugs Bunny then quotes: "One of these days, I'm gonna have to have that spring fixed." * Upon asking "What now?", Coyote tries a plunger, but Bugs Bunny uses a ventilation pipe to cause his would-be captor to get sucked in. * A recommendation to "slip TNT stick into vacuum cleaner" appears to be the break Wile E. Coyote is looking for, as the live stick is vacuumed up. However, Wile E. Coyote doesn't count on Bugs Bunny emptying the vacuum bag into a garbage can that he is hiding in. * "Well, how about trying a booby trap in the carrot patch?" Wile E. Coyote places a boulder above Bugs Bunny's carrot patch. Bugs, wearing a bonnet and bow tie, nonchalantly singing  harvests the carrot meant to trigger the trap, without setting off the trap. However, when Wile E. Coyote pulls at the trap, it is triggered. A panicked Wile E. Coyote desperately asks the UNIVAC, "Rock," "falling." "What'll,"I," "do?" The answer provides no solace: "Go back and take your medicine." Wile E. goes back and is flattened by the boulder, once and for all. The UNIVAC's intelligence is then revealed to be Bugs Bunny when the computer screen slides open. Bugs then quotes: "Of course the real beauty of this machine is that it has only one moving part."Sylvester stands outside a pet store window, watching Tweety  in the display area. Tweety angers Sylvester when the bird goes over to a mouse ; Sylvester replies: "Laugh this off" and tries to throw a brick at the window. However, upon seeing a cop walk up behind Sylvester, the would-be puddy vandal runs in front of the brick and absorbs the blow. As Sylvester is planning to cut through the glass window with a glass cutter, a deliveryman takes Tweety away, to be delivered to Granny's house. Sylvester follows the deliveryman and rushes into the yard, only to discover a whole army of bulldogs. The rest of the cartoon contains Sylvester's attempts  to get at Tweety: * Walking across a tree branch that extends from the outside to the house. Tweety saws the branch off . * Using stilts to walk harmlessly above the dogs. Tweety gives the dogs some tools to cut the stilts down to size; Sylvester tries a hasty retreat but ends up just short of the gate.  * Building a rocket, which simply sets the cat's fur aflame. * Riding a bucket attached to a wire that he connected from a telephone pole to the edge of Granny's house. Unfortunately, Sylvester's weight is too heavy for the bucket's support, and the added weight lowers the bucket down to the horde of dogs, where they wait to beat Sylvester up. * Waiting until the yard is empty and then walking unannounced to the house. The dogs run outside and tackle the cat. This time, Sylvester gets away, but before he can catch his breath, a kindly old man - thinking the puddy had simply wandered outside his home - throws him back into the yard, where the dogs beat the cat up some more. * Hiding in a package intended for Granny. The original contents are dog food, which has the dogs so eager. Granny does not take the package in to unwrap,  instead she throws it to the dogs. As she watches the dogs tear open the package to get at their "food," Granny compliments on how hungry they were that she didn't have the chance to unwrap the package. Finally, Sylvester decides to wait until the early morning to tip-toe silently through the yard. The alarm clock goes off at 4 a.m., awakening the dogs and pummeling the cat one last time. Tweety innocently comments: "Now who do wuw suppowse would want to distwurb dose doggies so eawly in da morning?" before winking at the audience as the camera irises out.As the narrator tells the viewing audience, the action about to take place "has happened before, and will all happen again", only now it will happen in Edwardian London, in the neighborhood of Bloomsbury, where George and Mary Darling's preparations to attend a party are disrupted by the antics of the boys, John and Michael, acting out a story about Peter Pan and the pirates, which was told to them by their older sister, Wendy. Their father, who is fed up with the stories that have made his children less practical, angrily declares that Wendy has gotten too old to continue staying in the nursery with them, and it's time for her to grow up and have a room of her own. That night, they are visited in the nursery by Peter Pan himself, who teaches them to fly with the help of his pixie friend, Tinker Bell, and takes them with him to the island of Never Land. A ship of pirates is anchored off Never Land, commanded by Captain Hook with his sidekick, Mr. Smee. Hook boldly plots to take revenge upon Peter Pan for cutting off his hand, but he trembles when the crocodile that ate it arrives; it now stalks him, hoping to taste more. Hook also forms a plan to find Peter's hideout using the knowledge of Tiger Lily. The crew's restlessness is interrupted by the arrival of Peter and the Darlings. The children easily evade them, and, despite a trick by jealous Tinker Bell to have Wendy killed, they meet up with the Lost Boys: six lads in animal-costume pajamas, who look to Peter as their leader. Tinker Bell's treachery is soon found out, and Peter banishes her "forever" . John and Michael set off with the Lost Boys to find the island's Indians, who instead capture them, believing them to be the ones responsible for taking the chief's daughter, Tiger Lily. Big Chief, the Indian chieftain and Tiger Lily's father, warns them that if Tiger Lily is not back by sunset, the Lost Boys  will be burned at the stake. Meanwhile, Peter takes Wendy to see the mermaids. Wendy is considering leaving when the mermaids try to drown her, but things change when the mermaids flee in terror at the sight of Hook. Peter and Wendy  see that he and Smee have captured Tiger Lily, so that they might coerce her into revealing Peter's hideout. Peter and Wendy free her, and Peter is honored by the tribe. Hook then plots to take advantage of Tinker Bell's jealousy of Wendy, tricking her into revealing the location of Peter's lair. However, his plan to kill Peter becomes a bit compromised when Tinker Bell makes him promise "not to lay a finger, or a hook, on Peter Pan". He agrees, and then locks Tinker Bell in a lantern as a makeshift jail cell. Wendy and her brothers eventually grow homesick and plan to return home. They invite Peter and the Lost Boys to return to London and be adopted by the Darling parents. The Lost Boys agree, but Peter is so set against growing up that he refuses, presumptuously assuming that all of them will return shortly. The pirates lie in wait and capture the Lost Boys and the Darlings as they exit, leaving behind a time bomb to kill Peter. Tinker Bell learns of the plot just in time to snatch the bomb from Peter as it explodes. Peter rescues Tinker Bell from the rubble and together they confront the pirates, releasing the children before they can be forced to walk the plank. Peter engages Hook in single combat as the children fight off the crew, and finally succeeds in humiliating the captain. Hook and his crew flee, with the crocodile in hot pursuit. Peter gallantly commandeers the deserted ship, and with the aid of Tinker Bell's pixie dust, flies it to London with the children aboard. However, the Lost Boys decide to return to Never Land rather than be adopted in London. Mr. and Mrs. Darling return home from the party to find Wendy not in her bed, but sleeping at the open window; John and Michael are asleep in their beds. The parents have no idea that the children have even been anywhere. Wendy wakes and excitedly tells about their adventures. The parents look out the window and see what appears to be a pirate ship in the clouds. Mr. Darling, who has softened his position about Wendy staying in the nursery, recognizes it from his own childhood, as it breaks up into clouds itself.The Stooges are novice plumbers, whose first job is finding a valuable ring that went down a drainpipe at the home of the wealthy Norfleets . The timing could not be any worse, as the Norfleets are throwing a dinner party to celebrate their acquisition of a $50,000 Van Brocklin painting. The Stooges happily retrieve the ring, but Larry knocks it out of Moe's hand, and back it goes down the drain. The Stooges then work their way to basement to shut the water off. Larry is assigned to finding the water cutoff and proceeds to dig up most of the lawn. Shemp later surmises that the pipes fail to work properly because they are "clogged up with wires." Shemp and Moe proceed to remove the electrical system from the pipes and connect a water pipe to the newly available pipe. The cook , who is in the kitchen trying to prepare an extravagant meal for the Norfleets, watches in bewilderment as the stove and chandelier gush water. "This house has sho' goan crazy!", he exclaims. As the Norfleet's house transforms into Niagara Falls, two party guests named Mr. and Mrs. Allen ([[Kenneth MacDonald  manage to swipe the prized Van Brocklin painting. Shemp heads for the upstairs bath to continue fixing the pipes, and Moe and Larry discover that the ring was stuck in Larry's hair the whole time. Mr. Norfleet is happy about his ring, but frantic that his painting was stolen. Moe and Larry see Allen hiding the painting in a pipe, and a pie fight ensues, extending to the other party guests. The Stooges manage to recover the painting, and Mr. Norfleet decides to reward them. Moe and Larry wonder where Shemp has been all this time. It turns out that he got himself stuck fixing the bathroom's pipes. "Moe! Larry!", said Shemp.The story begins with Sylvester the Cat finding himself the heir of his mistress' vast fortune. While his financial adviser, Elmer Fudd, is urging him to invest his money, Sylvester is frightened he will simply lose his money. Meanwhile, his street cat friends are out to get the money for themselves, but Fudd manages to thwart each attempt. Finally, Fudd manages an extensive lecture on the benefits of good investment on the economy with an educational film to illustrate the point. While Sylvester is not convinced, the cats outside see the film themselves and are persuaded to the point when Sylvester manages to get the money to them, they demand he give it over to Elmer for invest. Defeated, Sylvester gives in and growls to the portrait of his mistress that his life would have been less complicated if she took her money with her.Larry is a womanizer who is having an affair with Moe's wife Belle . At the same time, he is also making eyes at Joe's fiancee, Millie . Moe, however, tracks down the conniving Larry at his pet shop, and gives him the works before Larry calms him down. Realizing he needs to cover his tracks, Larry looks for a "fall guy" in the form of Joe. Larry then gets Joe a job as an underwear salesman and the first place he goes is Moe's home. While Joe is modeling his ware, Larry lies to Moe about Joe's advances on Millie. Both of them go storming over to Moe's, while Joe flees up the chimney. After making a quiet getaway, Joe bumps into Larry, and turns him in.The story begins with Bugs reading the classic fairy tale Hansel and Gretel. Witch Hazel plays the witch who tries to cook and eat the children.  Bugs witnesses Witch Hazel coaxing the children inside and goes in her house, disguised as a truant officer, and saves the youths from her clutches. The children both turn to Hazel as they leave and say in a thick German accent: "Ach - your mother rides a vacuum cleaner!" However, once Hazel realizes that Bugs is a rabbit, she tries to cook him instead, using a carrot  as a lure. Bugs eats the carrot and falls asleep and Witch Hazel puts him into a pot to make rabbit stew. While the witch is occupied, a character resembling Prince Charming enters the house and kisses Bugs' hand. Bugs wakes up and says: "You're looking for Snow White, this is the story of HAHHN-sel and Gretel", and the Prince leaves, confused about how Hansel is pronounced. Bugs then tries to escape down a corridor but is trapped by Hazel. As she approaches, Bugs finds her magic power and uses it to transform her into a gorgeous lady bunny who has a feminine voice but still has Hazel's laugh. As he gets ready to leave with the bunny beauty, Bugs looks at the audience, breaking the fourth wall, and comments: "Ah sure, I know. But aren't they all witches inside?".This cartoon features Yosemite Sam and Bugs Bunny competing to see who can climb the Schmatterhorna pun on Walter Cronkite, and a reference to famed vaudeville comedians Smith & Dale's famous Dr. Kronkheit sketch. Krankheit, pronounced cronk-hite, means "sickness" in German. Instead, Yosemite ends up climbing the Eiffel Tower after a series of mountain climbing gags, to the sound of band music.{{Plot}}  The cartoon begins with Spike sleeping beside his son Tyke. When Tyke suddenly wakes up, Spike comforts him back to sleep again. Just then, Tom and Jerry enter the scene. Tom runs through a door and into some spades, rakes and hoes, as Jerry hides among Spike and Tyke. To find Jerry, Tom lifts Tyke up to look underneath the little bulldog. Spike sees Tom manhandling his son, runs onscreen up to Tom and yells out "Hey, you! That's my boy you got in your hand!" Tom realizes that he has Tyke in his hands and smiles nervously, attempting to run off, but Spike grabs Tom by the whiskers and issues him an ultimatum: "Listen, pussy cat. If I catch you bothering my boy again, I'll tear you apart. Now beat it!" Tom gets the message, and runs off in the opposite direction hitting everything - a tree a fountain,etc. He finally makes it and hides in a trash can. Jerry emerges from behind Tyke and walks off casually until Tom comes running back. Jerry takes cover by diving into a sleeping Spike's mouth...at least, that's what Tom is led to believe. Tom places his hand carefully in Spike's mouth while the dog is sleeping. It turns out that Jerry was hiding between Spike's arms. He puts his hands on the bottom of Spike's jaw and slams the bulldog's jaws shut with Tom's hand still in Spike's mouth. He yelps in pain and Spike wakes up. Tom struggles to get his hand out of Spike's mouth. Eventually, he does, pulling out Spike's teeth. Tom looks nervously and uses Spike's teeth as castanets while doing a Flamenco dance out of the scene and placing them on a pail.  In the next scene, Tom spies Jerry sleeping next to Tyke. Hiding behind Tyke's kennel, he reaches out for Jerry. Jerry, knowing that Tom is about to grab him, moves Tyke's tail into Tom's grip, so that Tom ends up grabbing Tyke. After running off with the little pup, moments later, Tom realizes his mistake. He turns around to see a sleeping Spike feeling for Tyke. Tom rushes back into Tyke's place, taking on the role of Tyke so Spike doesn't know that he took Tyke. Jerry then lifts up Tyke's kennel and slams it on Tom's tail. Tom yells in pain, and Spike picks him up and pats him on the back. "There, there, son. Ain't no cat gonna hoot you, no sir" not realizing that he is holding Tom. Just then, Tyke walks back onto the scene and whimpers. Spike looks at Tom suspiciously, realizing that he is not his son at all. So Tom whimpers in the same manner as Tyke. Then Tyke yaps, which Tom also does. Finally, Tyke growls and woofs, to which Tom growls, but accidentally meows he puts his paw over his mouth hoping Spike didn't notice . The game is over, and Spike finally realizes, but Tom bites him on the nose and runs off. Tom sets a rake, if Spike chases him, he will be hit at the trap. But, Spike is running forward. Knowing that he lost his opponent, Tom goes back, but he is hit in the rake. In the next scene, a piece of steak being transported across a washing line, and the movement is controlled by Tom. The steak stops moving, directly above Spike's nose , that he can smell it. Tom moves the steak back towards him, and Spike, still sleeping, is entranced by the smell of the steak, following it, all the while with his eyes closed. Jerry is wise to what's going on and tries to stop the hypnotized Spike. He drags him by the tail, but ends up getting his own head caught in a tap. Then he knocks on Spike's eyelids and opens his eyelid, but the bulldog does not respond. Finally, Jerry ends up being stomped flat. Tom lures Spike into a garden shed and barricades the door so that Spike can't get out. He snickers evilly, and chases Jerry. Which he ended in a barrel. Tom then catches Jerry, trapping him inside an upturned barrel. However, without Tom noticing, Jerry escapes through the side of the barrel and puts Tyke under the barrel instead. Spike breaks through the shed door and rushes up to Tom angrily, demanding "Where's my boy?!" Tom responds as if to say "I don't know". "If he's under that barrel, I'll skin ya alive!" Spike warns. Tom confidently attempts to lift up the barrel, until he hears a whistle, and looks to his side to see Jerry lying on a nearby fence. Realising he's in trouble, Tom gulps in great panic. "Come on, lift it up!" Spike yells. Tom struggles to do so, so Spike lifts up the barrel for him, and behold, Tyke is lying underneath it wagging his tail at his father. Tom runs off but before he can escape, the bulldog corners him and skins him alive. The cat is screaming in pain as he is skinned alive. In the final scene, Tom has literally been skinned alive, and is wearing a barrel to cover his lack of fur tapping his hand on a bat and peeking out in a hole in the fence. Tom's fur is being used as a snug rug by a sleeping Spike, Tyke and Jerry, who hangs a "DO NOT DISTURB" sign over Spike's ear and snuggles up between the father and son and sleeps.Woodcarver Woody Woodpecker specializes in wooden Indians and wooden nickels who is hard at work on his latest creation: a life-sized statue of an Indian chief, which, by coincidence, is an exact likeness of notorious bandit Chief Charlie Horse. The telephone rings, and a customer asks if Woody has any wooden Indians for sale. Woody replies that he has one he has just finishing. Meanwhile, outside Woody's shop, all is confusion as the sheriff and his posse are trying desperately to capture Chief Charlie Horse. They cart the wooden Indian away, believing him to be the real thing. Woody believes that the sheriff is the customer who telephoned, and he thinks that he has been slightly overpaid. Now Chief Charlie Horse himself enters Woody's shop, seeking a hiding place. The sheriff, realizing that made an error, returns to Woody's shop to search for the live Indian. Charlie hides the statue in a crate, and then, when the sheriff enters the room, he poses as the wooden Indian. Both Woody and the sheriff fall for the trick and believe that Charlie has gotten away. The sheriff takes back the reward money, and Woody starts to work on his model again. When Woody has finished, he tacks a "sold" sign on the carving, and Charlie lets out a resounding yell. Thinking that the real Indian is the wooden Indian, the sheriff throws Charlie out of jail.The film is set in the 1910s in Fargo, Georgia, near a dangerous swamp. Ben Tyler and his father Zack one day go into the swamp to search for two lost trappers. During an unsuccessful journey, Ben's dog Careless disappears while run after a deer. While looking for Careless, Ben is hit in the head by someone, and when he awakens, he finds himself captured by two primitive people, the old Jim Harper and his fierce, aggressive daughter Laurie. Ben recognizes Jim, who has been accused of a murder committed eight years ago. Fearing to be lycnhed, Jim and his daughter have since fled the nearby village to live in the wilderness. Jim admits to one killing, claiming it was done in self-defense, but insists that the other murder was committed by the vicious Longden brothers. Despite Laurie's clearly noticeable lack of trust in Ben, he believes the story of Jim and tells them he wants to return to the civilization to give them a fair trial. The following days, Ben accompanies Jim and Laurie in their routine days, which includes hunting. In this period, Laurie's hostility towards Ben softens and they start feeling attracted to each other. During a short return to home, Ben outrages his father and fiancée Noreen by announcing he will soon go back into the swamp. Noreen announces she does not plan on waiting for him and that she will look for another beau. At a later dance, Noreen provokes a fight between Ben and Jack Doran, her date, and Ben eventually breaks off the engagement. Noreen follows Ben to Laurie and finds out about her identity. She falsely claims to Laurie that Ben has betrayed the Harpers and she next tells the Longdens about Ben's interference with Jim and Laurie. As a revenge, the Longdens almost drown Ben and later try to find the Harpers to kill them, so the truth will not come out. Ben also goes into the swamp to warn Jim and Laurie, who initially do not believe his warnings until Ben becomes a target of the Longdens. After Jim is shot by one of them, Laurie sets a trap which kills one of the brothers and captures the other. In the end, the Harpers' name is cleared and they are finally able to return to the civilization, accompanied by Ben.Tom is chasing Jerry through the house, then bumps into a table and breaks an ornament abd Tom gets scolded by Joan. While Tom is cleaning the mess, he sees an advertisement on the newspaper, and gets interested in the ad and leaves for the given location. Tom walks along a road and sees the creepy house, enters the place and a witch  comes in riding on her broom. Seeing the job is less appealing than he thought, Tom tries to leave but the witch grabs Tom on her broomstick. She then gives her broom a kick and they take off. During the ride, the witch loses her hat. Tom had taken it and uses it to parachute down, but the witch grabs Tom, they return to the house and the witch tells Tom that he gets the job. Tom is left to sleep in a casket. As the witch retires, Tom looks at her broom and decides to take it on a joyride. He gets the hang of riding a broomstick by himself and does a few tricks. Tom then flies by his house spying Jerry, who thinks that he saw something, Jerry then opens the front door and gets knocked down by Tom, who then gets off the broom and points to Jerry. The broom hits Jerry and sweeps him into a dustpan. Tom leaves and returns to the witch's house where the witch is waiting for him. She is very angry about Tom taking her broomstick. The broom takes off on a painful ride with Tom on it. The broom drags Tom's head through the ceiling, causes him to bounce down the stairs, and into a table. The broom then acts like a pogo stick with Tom holding on to it. However, Tom wakes up to see Joan shaking the broomstick. Realising it was only a dream, Tom is relieved and goes back to clearing up his mess. He then decides to sit on the broom and gives it a kick. Before he can react, the broom takes off with him on it, sailing towards the night sky. Joan and Jerry see this and Joan says "Now, what's that cat up to..?".{{Plot}}  Tom is reading the paper but quickly discards it and pretends to be asleep when he sees his owner Joan walk past him. He then sees an ad in the paper that says: BIG MONEY PAID FOR WHITE MICE. There is a mouse in the house, but it's not white. A little paint will fix that, though. Tom paints a steel nut yellow to look like cheese and feeds it to Jerry, then attracts him with a magnet. He paints Jerry white and sells him to the local pet store, receiving $50. He hides his earnings under the rug. Unfortunately, Joan finds and takes the money and buys  a white mouse, the very same one Tom sold. Jerry dances to music on the radio. Tom hits his head with a coal spade, trying to hit Jerry, but misses. After a few more attempts, he catches the mouse, but Joan is angry and hits him on the head and throws him out of the house.  Tom is furious and creeps up to the window. Then, the curtain is drawn and Jerry holds out a sign reading "Jerry, the Dancing Mouse". Jerry dances the way he did earlier, taunting Tom. Tom reaches for the garden hose while watching the presentation and then opens the window and blasts Jerry with the hose. Tom chases Jerry and traps him under a teapot. Joan hears the noise and enters the kitchen as Jerry rolls in a tub of flour and turns himself white. She asks Tom if he's got the white mouse under the teapot, Tom shakes his head, but he lied. And Tom lifts it up revealing a white Jerry. Joan slaps Tom with a broom, scolding him. Tom runs away and finds a fireplace bellows. He surprises Jerry and blows off the flour on his lower torso. Tom gives chase and Jerry tears shreds off a broom when Joan spots Jerry, who dances like a cabaret girl and hides his brown parts. Tom sneaks up behind Jerry and blows off all the flour after she leaves. Jerry hides in a closet and Tom tries to force entry until he is whacked by Joan. Tom turns the tables on Joan by snatching the broom from her grasp and breaking it in two, leaving her speechless and she watches as he triumphantly opens the cupboard door, to point at Jerry, who jumps out - but he's white again! Tom's eyes pop out and Tom has to punish himself by hitting himself with the top half of the broom until he's out of sight. He sees Jerry kiss a bottle of shoe polish and is distraught until he sees a can of white paint in the garage. Tom paints himself white and comes back. He rings the doorbell and holds out a sign that says "Tom the Dancing Cat" to a startled Joan. Tom dances just like Jerry and charms Joan. Under the impression that the cat was simply jealous of her white mouse, Joan lets Tom in, but makes him promise to be friends with Jerry. She leaves, and Tom dances while repeatedly stomping on Jerry.Henry Jekyll  is a bungling, awkward and socially inept buffoon working in his uncle's pharmacy. One day he discovers an old formula created by his uncle which claims to turn 'a man of timid disposition into a bold, fearless dragon'. He eagerly mixes the formula, takes one drink, and is transformed into the suave, dashing and self-confident Teddy Hyde. Teddy immediately becomes a darling of society and a big hit with the ladies. However he also craves the thrill of becoming a master criminal, and recruits a gang of expert crooks to join him in carrying out a series of daring and ambitious jewel robberies. The formula wears off, and Teddy changes back into Henry, who is appalled at the crimes committed by his alter ego. Feeling overcome with guilt, he turns coppers' nark and helps the police to round up and capture the robbers who have evaded them for so long.The cartoon begins at the Cook Shack of a ranch with Tom sleeping lazily as Jerry steals a sausage. The cook then calls Tom using a triangle, preparing dinner  for him but warning him that he can only eat when he gets rid of Jerry . The cook sends Tom away by shooting at him. First, Tom paints his finger the color of a sausage so that Jerry mistakes it for a sausage. Jerry then lassos the 'sausage'. At first Tom get excited and smiles as if to say "got him!" Then he is being pulled by Jerry, Tom's expression goes from happy to a surprised look from Jerry's strength as if to say "uh-oh this isn't good" and Tom goes through the mouse hole. A chase follows, and just before Tom catches Jerry, Jerry pushes over a rake which rings the triangle. Tom drops Jerry and goes to collect his dinner. The cook takes it away and warns, "I said no dinner 'till you catch that mouse!" again shooting Tom away. The chase begins again, with Tom trying to lasso Jerry towards him, but he misses and catches the turkey instead. The cook once again shoots Tom away. Later on, Tom has prepared a trap, but Jerry sees it. He then comes up with a trick of his own: preparing a sandwich with the sleeping cook's hand in it and ringing the triangle. Tom grabs the 'sandwich' and takes a bite: the cook yells in pain and shoots Tom away yet again, shooting several discrete holes in Tom which can be seen as water that he drinks comes back out through the holes. Jerry appears with a baton, but seeing Tom, runs away and does another 'sandwich' trick, this time with a bull's tail. Tom takes a bite and is flung back to the shack. Tom sees Jerry with a piece of paper, which turns out to be a contract saying that in return for Jerry's co-operation, Tom would share his meals. The two shake hands, ready to co-operate. As the cook is peeling potatoes, gunfire can be heard and then seen as Tom 'shoots' at Jerry so that the cook thinks that Tom is trying to get Jerry. Tom fires a few shots into the air as the cook gives Tom his dinner, giving endless praise. As Tom sits down to eat, Jerry whistles and reminds Tom about the contract. Tom fires several holes into it, as if to say "The deal's off!" before going back to his dinner. Jerry approaches and throws the dinner into Tom's face. In rage, Tom grabs a red-hot branding iron and chases Jerry. Tom is running flat-out as Jerry opens the shack door. Tom is unable to stop and runs right into the back of the cook, causing him to scream in pain and jump out of his boots and, seeing Tom as a traitor, runs after Tom, constantly shooting and with a burnt Circle-X brand on his trousers. Jerry watches, eating a turkey leg as the cook chases Tom into the sunset.Returning from a cricket match in Ireland, Peter Weston, an Englishman, is left a pet alligator by another passenger who abandons it to him. He is horrified and his first instinct is to get rid of it as soon as possible. However, he soon develops a bond with a young Irishwoman which appears to be centred almost entirely around the animal. He soon discovers that Daisy is very tame and domesticated, and seems to be the way to Moira's heart. Once back in London, Weston struggles to keep Daisy under control – as she upsets his family, loses him his job at a department store and imperils his relationship with his fiancée . He plans to get rid of Daisy, but the police and a pet shop refuse to take her so he abandons her in Regent's Park – later returning to rescue her with a sense of guilt. Owing to a mix-up, Daisy is packed along with the rest of his luggage to accompany him to his prospective's father-in-law's country house. Daisy soon escapes and causes mayhem bringing his engagement seemingly to an end and opening the way to a relationship with Moira.Daffy Duck is a traveling salesman for the Ace Novelty Company of Walla Walla, Washington, when he witnesses Foghorn Leghorn and The Barnyard Dog in one of their familiar alternating scraps. Foghorn is seen awakening the dog by lifting him up by the tail and repeatedly slapping his rear end with a board which causes the dog to chase him. The dog is in pursuit but reaches a painted white line with a sign that reads "Rope Limit" which causes the dog to be jerked to a stop by the rope around his neck. Foghorn then takes a rubber ball and stuffs it in the dog's mouth, then punctures the ball with a needle causing the dog to fly away. As Foghorn leaves he walks past a wooden tower with a sign the reads "Don't Look Up". Foghorn naturally looks and sees the dog perched on the tower holding a watermelon which the dog releases, causing it to break over Foghorn's head. The dog's prank prompts Foghorn to contemplate "massive retaliation" against his nemesis. Daffy enters with his traveling salesman suitcase of novelty joke items and offers to help Foghorn get back at the dog by selling him a trick bone that is spring-loaded. The prank works and Daffy then intervenes to help the dog retaliate against Foghorn with a gift-wrapped corn-on-the-cob that is connected to an electrical wire. Naturally, Foghorn wants to get back at the dog with an even bigger prank and Daffy sells him something called the Chattanooga Choo-Choo which ends up backfiring on Foghorn. To make up for the Chattanooga Choo-Choo, Daffy offers to sell Foghorn an elaborate prank called the Pipe Full Of Fun Kit Number 7, which Foghorn purchases. As Foghorn is setting up the trap, he sees the dog setting up the same trap to use against him, and they both realize that Daffy has been playing them against each other . Foghorn and the dog join forces to go after Daffy, who attempts to flee but is instead victimized by the Pipe Full O' Fun Kit, and Foghorn says "You know, there might I say there just might be a market for bottled duck.".That night Porky and Sylvester are relaxing camping in the desert. Sylvester suddenly hears a howl that scares him and Porky proceeds to point out it is a harmless coyote, forcing to go to sleep outside while Porky himself sleeps in his tent. Suddenly, an alien from the planet Jupiter arrives on Earth, with his mission being to collect some earthlings for an experiment. Sylvester is scared by the alien and tries to warn Porky, but this only makes Porky angry and causing him to boot Sylvester back outside. Eventually, Sylvester manages to show Porky of the alien who has arrived in their tent, but Porky mistakes the alien for a Navajo Native American and tells him to go back in his 'wigwum', on the supposed pretense he will look at his goods in the morning. Confused, the alien goes back to his flying saucer and drill into the rock to rise up from underneath the campsite and take it back to his home planet. After some more confusion and chaos as Sylvester freaks out and realizes they are leaving Earth, which Porky is completely unaware of and blissfully ignores, they eventually are released from the saucer's top as they leave the gravity field of Earth. Sylvester is utterly panicking and praying at this point, but fortunately they land on an alien world and safely wake up to leave, unaware that they are being observed by a pair of giant bird-like aliens who probably have a nasty surprise planned for them as the cartoon irises out.Down on his luck, jockey agent "Boots" Malone  is at a diner with his friend "Stash" Clements  when teenage runaway Thomas Gibson Jr.  tries to pay for his meal with a hundred dollar bill. When the cook asks him to come back in the morning for his change, Boots steps in . Interested in the money himself, Boots takes the boy under his wing. Tommy is eager to become a jockey, so he offers to pay Boots to train him. He is soon doing various chores around the stables. Meanwhile, Boots, Stash, and "Preacher" Cole  have their eye on a promising horse, White Cargo. They fix it so that it performs badly at its next race. As a result, owner Howard Whitehead  puts it up for auction. When another bidder offers more than they have, Tommy produces another hundred dollar bill and they have their horse. One day, White Cargo is startled and bolts with Tommy on his back, showing that the boy has some talent. Boots begins to really train him. He lets the lad ride in a race, but does not tell him that they have secretly weighed White Cargo down . The horse does poorly in a race and the boy is upset. To restore Tommy's confidence, Boots has him ride in another race with a different horse; he wins. As the big race approaches, complications arise. Boots tangles with a private detective hired by Tommy's mother, a wealthy businesswoman, to find her boy. Boots reluctantly calls her and tells her where to collect her son. Disapproving of Boots, she convinces Tommy that Boots turned him in for the $5000 reward.  Despite this, Tommy runs away again and returns to Boots in time for the race. The two reconcile. When Mrs. Gibson calls, Boots warns her that she will lose the love of her son if she prevents him from racing. Meanwhile, Matson , a gangster to whom Boots owes a lot of money, tells him to throw the race, as he has bet heavily on another horse. Boots tries to convince Tommy to go along, but in the end, does not have the heart to spoil what may be the boy's last ride, and White Cargo wins. Afterwards, Tommy boards a train to go back to school. When Boots is warned that Matson and his men are waiting for him, he jumps on the train.Granny and Tweety are riding through the desert in their wagon, to the tune of Oh! Susanna, when they are ambushed by Indians . They are forced to hole up in a fort, where Granny begins to shoot them down while Tweety counts . On the tenth, one nearly takes Tweety, but is shot down just in time. More attempts include an archer and a battering ram, both foiled. One archer almost drags Tweety out again  but Granny surprises him with a bomb instead. The cats' attempts continue like this, all of them backfiring or being foiled. Finally, Granny and Tweety disguise themselves as a fellow Indian, and lead the cats into the powder house. When one asks for a match, they kindly oblige, and the powder house explodes, causing all the cats to fall. "Oh my goodness!" Tweety comments, "It's raining putty tats!"The boys are set to do their income taxes, which are due the next day. As they do, Moe mentions on how easy it is for people to "gip" on their tax returns and not get caught, so the three of them get the idea to create their own fake deductions to ensure a hefty refund, and throughout their endeavors, Larry and Shemp come up with an idea to come up with creative deductions for other peoples' tax returns and charging them for it. Moe finds this idea grand, and the three of them become "tax experts." Not long afterward, the Stooges are enjoying a life of luxury, having made lots of money from profits and their own tax returns. On one particular day, they host a dinner party for one of their clients, a German man who obsessively strokes his beard, but as the meal commences, strange happenings and the boys' own incompetence anger their guest. He then removes his beard , exposes himself as a sleeper agent for the IRS and calls in his fellow agents to arrest the Stooges for tax fraud. With nothing left to lose, the boys make a mad dash away and attempt to fight off the agents, but end up being bested and sent away in handcuffs.In this cartoon, Bugs Bunny is doing a bit of spring cleaning. He ducks into his hole when a small bird  zooms past. He then sees a deer jump over him, and wonders "what's all the excitement about?" Then a whole stampede of animals appears, and Bugs tries to ask them what's going on, but all of his "What's up, doc?" queries go unanswered. He manages to stop a turtle by putting a shovel in front of him. Bugs asks the turtle what was happening, with the turtle explaining that "the Tasmanian Devil's on the loose! Run! Run! Run for your life!". Bugs then goes back into his hole and looks in the encyclopedia to find this character in it. This cartoon, in fact, is the Tasmanian Devil’s first appearance in Warner Bros.' Looney Tunes cartoons. Bugs Bunny gets himself into this situation because he offers to help the disheveled Tasmanian Devil find his dinner. The following quote illustrates Bugs’ realization that Taz is in fact a threat and danger to him: "Q..R..S..T, Tasmanian ... Here it is! 'A strong, murderous beast, jaws powerful as a steel-trap &mdash; has ravenous appetite &mdash; eats tigers, lions, elephants, buffaloes, donkeys, hippopotamuses, rhinoceroses, giraffes, octopuses, moose, ducks," the Tasmanian Devil then appears next to him and interjects, "Rabbits". Bugs, not noticing him at first, states that "It doesn't say rabbits here..." but Taz handwrites it into the encyclopedia, thus getting the rabbit's attention. That is when Bugs Bunny realizes that he is in danger and that the Tasmanian Devil could in fact potentially attack and eat him. He then convinces Taz that he  would not satisfy his appetite. He tells him that groundhogs would do so; Bugs hands him a shovel and ends up burying him. Just when Bugs thinks he's done with him, the Tasmanian Devil asks: "What for you bury me in the cold, cold ground?" Taz then attacks him, Bugs then feigns smelling chicken nearby which excites Taz. Bugs makes the chicken from liquid bubble gum and baking soda which Taz immediately devours. He then starts hicupping and creates a giant bubble and begins to drift away. Bugs takes out a slingshot and shoots Taz down causing him to become entangled in the gum caught in a tree branch. Next Bugs makes a pig out of an inflatable raft. Taz swallows it and Bugs pulls the string causing the raft to inflate inside of him. Then Bugs creates a deer out of wood. He then sees the Tasmanian Devil after him and climbs up a tree, which Taz chomps down on causing it to become smaller with each bite. Bugs diverts his attention to the crudely made wooden deer  and tells him to knock it out with a giant slingshot . As Taz pulls down on the slingshot, Bugs saws down the tree that is used for the slingshot causing Taz to go flying off and crash. As Bugs laughs at Taz's misfortune, a real fawn (resembling [[Bambi  appears next to him. He warns the fawn of the Tasmanian Devil , not knowing that Taz is right behind him . "Flattery will get you nowhere", Taz says to Bugs, "and you can't fool me again". Bugs attempts to convince him that the fawn is made of straw. Taz replies: "But you're not!" After trying to bite Bugs' face off, he starts to chase him, devouring everything he comes across. Bugs hides in a tree hole and calls a delivery service for a lonely Female Tasmanian Devil whom Taz immediately falls in love with . Bugs pretends to be a minister and pronounces them "Devil and Devilish". The couple then ride off in the airplane that the She-Devil came on. Bugs ends the cartoon with the line: "All the world loves a lover, but in this case I'll make an exception".Herr Spring, a fat German cuckoo clockmaker, finds that after completion of a new clock, he now needs a cuckoo bird to occupy it. He therefore goes out into the Black Forest to find one. Woody Woodpecker hears the clockmaker calling, "Cuckoo, Cuckoo" as he enters the forest, and he decides to humor him, thinking him a little crazy. Woody pretends to be a cuckoo bird in order to live inside the clock and to upset the clockmaker's journey. After a time, Woody's trapped inside a bird catcher's net, and takes delight in tormenting the clockmaker. A big brown bear, peacefully sleeping in the forest, is rudely awakened by a club in Woody's hands, swung from within the net, resulting in the bear taking his vengeance out on the German. From then on, it is a battle of wits between Woody and the clockmaker trying to capture the elusive Woody.Woody is reading the story of Hansel and Gretel to his nephew Knothead and his niece Splinter. Neither of the kids seem to be interested, though, and walk out while Woody is still reading. However, the kids decide to act out the story by pretending to be Hansel and Gretel and purposely getting lost in the woods. A cat spots the two little woodpeckers and decides to catch and cook them. In order to capture Knothead and Splinter, the cat makes a gingerbread house  and, through a straw, shoots Mexican Jumping Jelly Beans at the kids. The little woodpeckers eat the jelly beans, which send them jumping to the gingerbread house. As Knothead and Splinter arrive, they are greeted by the cat whom they know is up to no good, but they go along with him anyway. The cat decides to eat Splinter for lunch and save Knothead for dinner, but Knothead escapes. Meanwhile, Splinter reads the cat a recipe for Woodpecker Pot Pie, and prepares herself to go into the oven along with the pie, while Knothead decides to play a few tricks on the cat. When the cat finally catches the two woodpeckers, he puts them in the oven but Knothead takes the phone with him and calls the gas company to tell them he refuses to pay the bill. As a result, the woodpeckers emerge from the oven alive, but before they can escape the cat catches Knothead by putting salt on his tail. Splinter puts the cat's tail in an egg beater in order to save Knothead and give him a chance to escape. Once he is free, Knothead takes the cat's tail and paints a fascimile of himself on it. The cat ends up putting his own tail into the oven and burns himself. For the finish, the little woodpeckers give the cat a bowl of soup with a firecracker in it, and make their escape back home.The Stooges are pest exterminators who decide to drum up business by planting mice, moths, and ants in an unsuspecting house. They select a fancy mansion where a high society dinner party is being held. After successfully infesting the house with pests, the trio are predictably hired to clean up their own mess without interrupting the party. One highlight is the piano recital, whereby Johann Strauss II's "Blue Danube Waltz" is being played by party guest/pianist Mr. Philander . A chorus of cats replies, bewildering the audience and Mr. Philander. Chaos ensues inside suddenly when a mouse enters the piano, agitating the cats. The Stooges are forced to get the offending pest off the piano, destroying it with hilarious results. After the piano incident passes, the Stooges start loitering around the pastry table. One things leads to another, and a massive pie fight ensues.In the opening scene, a 4-4-4 train pulls into the station in a town called Gower Gulch, where Tweety's owner says goodbye to him and entrusts him to the care of a conductor  in the baggage car. After the train pulls out of the station, Tweety sings his signature song: :I'm a tweet wittle bird in a diwded tage, :Tweety's my name, but I don't know my age. :I don't have to wowwy and dat is dat, :I'm tafe in here fwom dat ol' puddytat. Tweety then notices Sylvester in the cage next to his and gives his catchline, "I tawt I taw a puddytat!" He looks again to make sure: "I did! I did! I did taw a puddytat!" Sylvester then opens the small door of his carrier and extends his paw to tap on the door of Tweety's cage. Tweety answers, and as Sylvester tries to grab him, the vigilant conductor swats his paw with a cane. The conductor hangs Tweety's cage on a hook in the ceiling to keep him safe and sound and warns Sylvester to behave. As soon as the conductor leaves the car, Sylvester proceeds to stack various articles of baggage to reach Tweety's cage. When Sylvester tries to grab Tweety again, Tweety finds the emergency cord and pulls it, causing the train to screech to an instant halt and sending Sylvester sailing through the air across two passenger cars and into the engine's furnace. Sylvester quickly leaps out and runs back to the baggage car, and as he angrily stalks Tweety, Tweety pulls the cord again, restarting the train and sending Sylvester through the air into a garbage can lid that Tweety has found. Sylvester then starts chasing Tweety, but the conductor interrupts the chase and orders Sylvester back into his cage. In the next scene, Sylvester is in his cage next to a bulldog, who starts growling at him. Annoyed, Sylvester shouts "Aaaaaaah, shut up!" and whacks the bulldog with an umbrella, but Hector keeps growling. At that moment, the train is approaching an incline and as it ascends, Sylvester slides into the bulldog, who punches him and sends him into the wall. Sylvester slides back down as the train continues to climb, and the bulldog punches him again. As Sylvester starts sliding down yet again, the train starts moving down the incline, sending Sylvester sliding back to the wall and making him think he is safe, until he sees the bulldog sliding down toward him with fist extended to punch him again, prompting Tweety to say: "Poor puddytat!" Sylvester makes another attempt at stacking the baggage to reach Tweety. Tweety reaches for the emergency cord again, only to see that it has been cut and that Sylvester is holding it. But Tweety pulls it anyway, and again sends Sylvester flying. Sylvester comes back and snatches Tweety, but when he hears the conductor's footsteps, he stuffs Tweety into a mailbag and leaves it on a hook alongside the track. Sylvester smiles sheepishly as the conductor walks by, then dashes to the observation car to grab the mailbag. He reaches inside and instead of Tweety finds the bulldog, who immediately chases him away. As Tweety is swinging inside his cage, Sylvester saws a hole in the roof and again finds the bulldog, instead of Tweety, who starts pursuing Sylvester atop the train. Sylvester momentarily eludes the bulldog by ducking into a space between two cars, then both start running in the opposite direction. As Sylvester prepares to knock the bulldog out with a club, the train heads into a tunnel, slamming Sylvester in the face into the bridge above it. The train finally returns to Gower Gulch station, where Sylvester, disguised as Tweety's "mommy", gets out of a taxi and rushes to the baggage car to claim him. The conductor hands him the cage, which is covered, and Sylvester hurries back to the taxi with the cage. As the taxi drives away, Sylvester uncovers the cage, it was revealed that the bulldog is inside the cage instead of Tweety! The taxi pauses at a mile marker post, and the bulldog rips it out and pummels Sylvester with it as the taxi speeds along the road. As Tweety  is observing this from the observation car, he sadly says: "Uh-oh, da puddytat's dot anudda pwaymate! It's donna be awfwy wonesome fwom here to Pasadena."Woody Woodpecker operates a babysitting service when he receives a call for a babysitting job. Woody is shown the baby's crib and, after the parents leave the house, rushes to the refrigerator, makes some sandwiches, opens a few bottles of Coke, and settles down to enjoy the evening TV show in solid comfort. Just as he is completely relaxed and enjoying himself, he hears the baby cry. He opens his Baby-Sitters' Manual and ascertains that when the baby cries, you give him a bottle. He prepares the bottle, takes it to the crib, and, to his consternation, discovers that he is babysitting baby gorilla. About to rush out of the house, he suddenly remembers the $50 fee, so he decides to stick it out. Following directions in the Baby-Sitters' Manual, he does everything in his power to get the baby gorilla asleep. The baby defies every rule, but Woody finally gets the baby asleep and settles down to await the arrival of his parents.The Stooges play the proprietors of the Cafe Casbah Bah, a Middle Eastern restaurant. One morning Moe and Larry are awakened by their crying sweethearts, who are in need of money to pay off a bad debt. While attempting to prepare a meal for customers Hassan Ben Sober  and Gin-A Rummy , the Stooges try to think of a way to raise the needed cash. In the interim, they discover a plan that their hungry customers are hatching. These two thieves are attempting to rob the tomb of Rootentooten, which contains a priceless diamond, but they discover that the Emir of Schmow  has already gotten his hands on the diamond. The two plotters start wailing and are thrown out of the restaurant. The Stooges then attempt to retrieve the diamond themselves, as there is a $50,000 reward at stake. The Stooges arrive at the Emir of Shmow's palace, all three dressed as Santa Claus. They then manage to acquire the diamond and make a quick exit, but not before dealing with a burly guard.A buzzard egg is mysteriously delivered to two sparrows, Gwendolyn and Monte. The "upper crusty" and very proper English Sparrows are not accustomed to having a repulsively ugly  little bird about, but Gwendolyn convinces her husband that the baby bird will grow into a "beautiful swan". Unfortunately, as the narrator tells us, the little ugly bird grows into a very large ugly bird. Monte cannot even stand hearing the name of their "progeny", particularly when eating. But nonetheless, he takes Beaky out into the world to demonstrate the art of hunting for prey, such as barnyard fowl. Of course Beaky, being incredibly shy and inept, repeatedly causes many grievous injuries to Monte, and it is all Monte can do to salvage what little self-respect remains.Moe, Larry, and Joe are about propose marriage to their sweethearts. But later, the boys discover that Joe's fiancee's ring has been stolen. The Stooges suspect it is Elmo, a muscular bully who works at their plant. The Stooges come face to face with him in the company gym, but when they try to make him give the ring back by physical force, the plan backfires and Moe and Larry are knocked senseless. But Joe's girl  is tougher and knocks out Elmo. She retrieves the ring and she can now marry Joe.Introduction: The Road Runner is chased down a roadway by Wile E. Coyote on a rocket, and the rocket's exhaust repeatedly runs into the camera during the chase, allowing the title cards to be shown. The chase begins in full force, and the Coyote gains on the Road Runner, leans off the rocket slightly, and prepares to sink his utensils into the Road Runner. Then the cartoon pauses for Wile E.'s Latin name , and then for the Road Runner's . The chase continues down the road as Wile E. prepares to make his move, but before he can deliver the final blow, he hits his head on a tunnel arch as the Road Runner goes through it. The Road Runner and the rocket come out the other end; the bird escapes and the rocket  returns toward its owner. Wile E. recovers from the jar and climbs down, but soon returns upwards when he sees the rocket coming at him. He sighs with relief and dismounts the arch, but, ironically, is hit by an ACME truck. Wile E. is pacing around a mountaintop when he runs directly into the Road Runner, who beeps and causes Wile E.'s head to retract after being scared into a rock ceiling. The Coyote chases after the bird through a cloud of dust, but only manages to throw himself into thin air. The Road Runner alerts the Coyote, who promptly suffers gravity to his annoyance. He manages to climb back up the mountain again, but no sooner does he do so than the Road Runner, on another plateau, beeps again. 1. The Coyote uses a see-saw and rock to attempt to launch himself towards the Road Runner, but the rock breaks through the cliff's edge, and the Coyote slides from the top of the board down and through the hole. He falls into almost the same spot as the first time, creating a cross of coyote imprints in the ground. 2. The Coyote patches up a trampoline on the desert ground and then proceeds to man a sniper rifle. He hears the Road Runner's beep, but doesn't see him approaching. He turns around to find the bird is actually perched 20 feet behind him. So he turns the rifle around, but there's no space on the other side. Wile E. falls off the cliff again, and then directly busts through his trampoline. 3. The Coyote has now ordered a giant rubber band and ties it around two rocks, hoping to trap the Road Runner. However, it is so elastic that it pulls the two rocks together while Wile E. is still in between them. 4. Now, Wile E. lights a bunch of fireworks inside a barrel and bungee-swings the barrel out into open space above the road which the Road Runner is about to pass. But the very edge of the rock that Wile E. is standing on breaks off, causing the Coyote to swing directly below the barrel. As the rope begins to snap, Wile E. climbs up to escape the calamity, but fails to make it off in time. He falls to the ground and is smashed by the barrel. Now, the Coyote has to escape his own security measure - a nailed-shut lid. Wile E. manages to hammer off all the nails and climb out of the barrel, then hide and wait for the explosion. However, he forgot to check the lid - the fireworks are on the lid, which Wile E. is still wearing! 5. Next, Wile E. builds a high wire structure and dons a wheel-head. He struggles to get himself balanced upside-down on top of the wire , and when he finally is able to let go of the rock, the wire snaps, sending Wile E. crashing headfirst into the ground. Then, the wire drapes over a power line while one end falls into the Coyote's hole, resulting in the Coyote incurring a violent electrical shock. 6. The Coyote now attaches TNT to the bottom of a high bridge as he waits on the ground with the controller. The Road Runner moves towards the intended target, but stops short of the bridge. The bridge detonates and the concrete falls directly upon the poor Coyote. 7. Wile E.'s last plan is to use ACME Tornado Seeds to trap the Road Runner. Wile E. tests them by placing one next to a small cactus and shooting the requisite blast of water at it. The seed morphs into a tornado and sucks up the cacti as planned. Therefore, Wile E. drops a handful of seeds into the road just before the Road Runner turns up. Wile E. fires his pistol, but instead of firing the seeds on the road to suck up the Road Runner, it malfunctions and all the water comes out the bottom and when it lands on the jar of tornado seeds, it grows big and it makes the jar cold. The jar spin and all the words are gone and all the remaining seeds form a huge tornado that sucks up the Coyote and brake the jar and takes him on the spin of his life, culminating in a journey into an army mine field. Wile E. suffers explosion after explosion as the Road Runner pulls down the "That's All Folks!" end-title card  like a curtain. The End.Woody finds out there is money to be made by turning alligators into suitcases. He wastes no time heading down to the Everglades to pursue his fortune. He then meets Al I. Gator  who has his own plans for cooking the woodpecker.Tweety and Granny arrive at their hotel in Venice, Italy. From his cage on the balcony, Tweety looks down at the canal and thinks it is a flooded street and that there must be a lot of barber shops down there . As Tweety is singing “Santa Lucia” and strumming his mandolin in his cage, Sylvester spies him from his balcony across the canal. In haste, he runs out of the hotel with an open sandwich roll, and falls into the water. He climbs out and finds a canoe and starts rowing, but forgets to loosen it from the rope. After he cuts the rope, he sinks with the canoe. Sylvester then starts paddling in a rubber raft, but Tweety takes a slingshot and punctures it. The raft floats back to the dock with Sylvester as the air leaks out, and Sylvester removes the deflated raft from his hind quarters in disgust. Next, Sylvester tries to swing across the canal with a rope Tarzan-style, but lands in the water into the gaping mouth of a hungry shark. Sylvester wrestles his way out and swims hurriedly away. Then, using an electric fan and a balloon tied to his waist, Sylvester attempts to float his way across through the air, but he floats too high. Tweety, again using the slingshot, shoots Sylvester down from the sky. Sylvester dons a bathing cap as he is descending, but misses the water, landing on the sidewalk, next to Tweety and Granny’s hotel as it turns out. He runs into the hotel and takes the elevator up to the floor of Granny and Tweety's room, but Granny and Tweety are leaving, so Sylvester goes back down the elevator, which takes him...into the water! As Tweety and Granny are taking a relaxing gondola ride along the canal, Sylvester is awaiting them on a bridge with a fishing rod. Sylvester hooks a passing speedboat, forcibly yanking him into the water. After a close call with a striped pole, Sylvester gets slammed into a low bridge, where there is a warning sign that reads, “Ducka your head, lowla bridgeada”! Finally, as Sylvester is dining on a plate of spaghetti, he again hears Tweety singing “Santa Lucia” , and proceeds to hurl a strand of spaghetti like a lasso to catch Tweety. Nearly strangled, Tweety screams to Granny for help. Granny clutches Sylvester's noose of pasta and substitutes a mallet in Tweety’s place. As Sylvester sucks the spaghetti into his mouth, he gets clobbered squarely in the head with the mallet, causing birds to appear uttering Tweety’s trademark line: “I tawt I taw a puddytat!”Set in the desert, Operation: Rabbit opens with Wile E. Coyote running up to Bugs Bunny's rabbit hole and constructing a door. He knocks on the door and Bugs, slightly bemused by the addition to his property, opens it. The Coyote proclaims, in his very first spoken line of dialogue ever, that he is a genius, as well as being faster, taller, and stronger than Bugs, and that he intends to eat the rabbit. He goes on to advise Bugs that it is futile to try and escape, since Bugs "could hardly pass the entrance examinations to kindergarten", an insult Bugs does not seem to react to  An unimpressed Bugs replies, "I'm sorry, Mac, the lady of the house ain't home. And besides, we mailed you people a check last week," then slams the door in Wile E.'s face. The Coyote goes back to his cave hideout , asking himself: "Why do they always want to do it the hard way?" The Coyote's first plan to trap Bugs is to build a pressure cooker on top of the rabbit hole and cook Bugs alive. He chops up vegetables, throws them down the hole, adds an egg, a drop of cooking oil, some seasoning, tosses it into a salad, then places the pressure cooker on top. Bugs watches Wile E.'s work from another hole , then walks up to him and asks "What's cookin', Doc?" When informed that Wile E. is cooking "rabbit stew" , Bugs casually observes, "there's only one little thing wrong with it", that there is no rabbit . As Wile E. frantically looks under the cooker, Bugs gives him a big kick down the hole and sticks the cooker on top of Wile E. He then picks up a bat, goes back down the second hole, and clobbers the Coyote  at the other hole, prompting the Coyote to remark: "Well, back to the old drawing board." In the next scene, the Coyote prepares his second plan: the use of a chute for firing a cannon ball into Bugs' hole. After the ball arrives in the hole via the chute from a cannon, Bugs uses a second chute to return the ball to the Coyote, where it explodes on target, causing the Coyote's plan to quite literally backfire on him. Bugs then goes to the Coyote's cave to claim that he is surrendering "on account of I cannot fight no more against such genius," but he wants Wile E. to sign as a witness to his last will and testament. He gives the Coyote the document and a "pen", which is really a burning stick of dynamite. Wile E. knows that it's dynamite and puts out the fuse . While he gloats , it is revealed that there is another fuse at the other end of the TNT stick, which explodes on cue. The Coyote then returns to his cave and builds a mechanical  lady rabbit that will be used as a decoy to trap Bugs.  Bugs, however, has anticipated this plan, and built an explosive lady coyote in response . Bugs detonates the coyote robot just as Wile is romantically embracing it. Then, because Wile E. was so distracted that he forgot about the rabbit robot , it explodes in his cave as well. The Coyote then creates an exploding flying saucer with a radarscope mechanism able to detect birds, mice, and rabbits. The disc flies to Bugs' hole, but Bugs thwarts it by putting on a chicken mask. The disguised Bugs then writes in "Coyote" on the radarscope's target options and moves the dial there. The saucer speeds back to the Coyote's home, blew up the whole mountain to smithereens. The Coyote makes one last plan: While admiring his self-status as a "Super Genius," he fills a series of carrots with explosive liquid nitroglycerin inside his alternate home—a ramshackle shack. Bugs, using a tractor, drags the shack to the desert's railroad track, where a train is approaching. When the train hits the shack, all of the explosives in Wile E's stockpile explodes and launches him high into the air. "'Wile E. Coyote - Super Genius'", he groans in self-sarcasm while he was holding a tree branch on the edge of the cliff all burned up, finally admitting to himself that the rabbit has outwitted him. The Coyote, still dazed and covered in ash, returns to Bugs' hole, rebuilds his door, knocks on it and admits defeat. "Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Mud," he says to Bugs before passing out.A mailman delivers two packages and whistles out loud. Tom approaches to see that nothing is in his mailbox. He spots a package in Jerry's mailbox though, and opens it to find a book entitled "Life with Tom". He hides in the bush as Jerry walks towards his mailbox and retrieves a letter. Tom then hears a radio program which announces the publication of "Life with Tom" by Jerry Mouse. Tom opens the book and flips the page to "Dedicated to Tom.... Without whom, I could do very well". Tom moves on to a page. Flashback to 1946's Cat Fishin' beginning where Tom uses Jerry as bait and ending where Spike gives chase. Back to the present day, where the book reads: "To this day, Tom still thinks he caught a new species of dog fish". This makes Tom furious and he overhears his alley cats friends laughing. He skims to another page. Flashback to 1948's The Little Orphan beginning where Jerry and Nibbles are walking along the dinner table dressed as pilgrims and ending where Tom surrenders, waving the white flag. Back to the present day, Tom hears Spike and Tyke laughing. He extends his neck out to see what page the dogs are reading and moves to the page where Jerry reveals that while Man's best friend is a dog, Jerry's best friend is a canary. Flashback to 1948's Kitty Foiled beginning where the canary is shocked to witness Tom and Jerry's violent exploits and ending where Tom plunges down a hole aboard a train. Back again to the present day. With everyone laughing at his expense, Tom is so furious to discover he is a laughing stock, his face becomes a bright shade of red. He marches over to Jerry's hole, tearing off the facade and smashing the book over Jerry. Jerry then shows Tom the letter that he had received that morning. The letter states "Dear Jerry, enclosed find royalty checks for $50,000. In accordance with your instructions, half of this is for your friend Tom". Tom finds a check for $25,000...addressed to him! A flattered Tom has a change of heart about the autobiography and now begins to see the funny side of it all.On the outskirts of a wind-swept Arizona cattle town, an aggressive and strong-willed saloonkeeper named Vienna maintains a volatile relationship with the local cattlemen and townsfolk. Not only does she support the railroad being laid nearby , but she permits "The Dancin' Kid" and his confederates to frequent her saloon. The locals, lead by McIvers but egged on by Emma Small, are determined to force Vienna out of town, and the hold-up of the stage  offers a perfect pretext. Vienna faces them down helped by the mysterious and just arrived Johnny Guitar. He turns out to be her ex-lover and a reformed gunslinger whose real name is Johnny Logan. Their smouldering love/hate relationship develops until McIvers gives Vienna, Johnny Guitar and "The Dancin Kid" and his sidekicks 24 hours to leave. The Dancin' Kid and his gang rob the town bank to fund their escape to California. but the pass is blocked by the railroad who are dynamiting a way in and they flee back to their secret hideout behind a waterfall. Emma Small convinces the townsfolk that Vienna is as guilty as the rest and the posse ride to her saloon. Vienna appears to be getting the best of another verbal confrontation when one of the wounded bank robbers is discovered under the table. Emma persuades the men to hang Vienna, and burns the saloon down. At the last second Vienna is saved by Johnny Guitar. Vienna and Johnny escape the posse and find refuge in The Dancin' Kid's secret hideaway. The posse tracks them down and The Kid and his men are killed. Emma challenges Vienna to a showdown. Vienna is wounded in the duel, but she manages to kill Emma. A halt is called to the bloodbath by the posse's leader, McIvers. Vienna and Johnny depart, hopeful that better days lie ahead.On the bank of a tranquil English river, a young girl named Alice grows bored of listening to her older sister read aloud from a history book of William I of England. When her sister chastises Alice's daydreaming, Alice tells her cat Dinah that she would prefer to live in a nonsensical dreamland called Wonderland. Alice and Dinah spot a waistcoat-wearing White Rabbit passing by, and Alice gives chase as he rushes off claiming to be late for an unknown event. Alice follows him into a rabbit hole and falls into a labyrinth. She begins to float. She sees the White Rabbit disappear into a tiny door and tries to follow, but the door's talking knob advises her to alter her size using a mysterious drink and food. Alice eventually manages to shrink and passes through the door's keyhole and into Wonderland. She meets several strange characters including the Dodo and Tweedledee and Tweedledum who recount the tale of "The Walrus and the Carpenter." Alice eventually finds the White Rabbit in his house, but before she can ask what he is late for, she is sent to fetch some gloves. She eats a cookie and grows into a giant again, getting stuck in the rabbit's house. The White Rabbit, the Dodo, and chimney sweep Bill the Lizard believe Alice to be a monster and plot to burn the house down. Alice escapes by eating a carrot and shrinking down to the size of an insect. She meets and sings with some talking flowers, but they chase her away upon accusing her of being a weed. Alice is then instructed by the hookah-smoking Caterpillar to eat a part of his mushroom grow back to her original size. Alice decides to keep the remaining pieces of the mushroom on hand. Alice meets the Cheshire Cat who advises her to visit the Mad Hatter, March Hare and the Dormouse. The three are hosting a mad tea party and celebrate Alice's "unbirthday", a day where it is not her birthday. The White Rabbit appears, but the March Hare and Mad Hatter destroy his pocketwatch and throw him out of the party. Fed up with all the wonderlandians' rudeness and wackiness, Alice abandons her pursuit of the White Rabbit and decides to go home, but gets lost in the Tulgey Wood. The Cheshire Cat appears and leads Alice into a giant hedge maze ruled by the tyrannical Queen of Hearts and her smaller husband, the King of Hearts. The Queen beheads anyone who enrages her, and invites Alice in a bizarre croquet match using flamingoes and hedgehogs as the equipment. The Cheshire Cat appears again and pulls a trick on the Queen which she accuses Alice of doing, and Alice is put on trial. Just then, she remembers that she still has the remains of the Caterpillar's mushroom. She eats it and grows to an enormous height which the King claims is forbidden in court. Now a gigantic size, Alice feels free to speak her mind and in doing so she openly insults the Queen. However, she had hastily eaten both sides of the mushroom and shrinks to her normal size. She is forced to flee after the Queen orders her execution. Alice becomes pursued by most of Wonderland's characters until she finally reunites with the Doorknob, who then tells her she is having a dream, forcing Alice to wake herself up. The film ends as Alice and her sister head home for tea.It's Pluto's birthday, but Mickey's nephews prefer to amuse themselves. The children receive a small cart, and treat Pluto like a workhorse. Then, they decide to play to see who can catch Pluto's tail. Eventually, they gobble up all of Pluto's birthday cake and leave. Pluto, understandably upset, angrily throws a tantrum, knocking away all the dishes until Mickey passes him one last slice of the birthday cake he saved. Pluto, happily eats the cake, licking Mickey between bites to show his gratitude.The Brooklyn Ice Palace shuts down after the Ice Frolics packs up to go to another show somewhere else, but during their departure, the Ice Frolics crew forget their star performer, "Playboy" Penguin. As Playboy attempts to catch up with the convoy of trucks, he accidentally falls into Bugs Bunny's hole. At first, Bugs thinks he's having a nightmare, but upon discovering what woke him up, he scolds Playboy for "crashing" into his slumber. Just as Playboy begins to cry, Bugs, now feeling guilty over his actions, apologizes to Playboy and, after finding out he's lost, promises to help him get home. He then looks up Playboy in a book to discover he's a penguin and that his "home" is the South Pole, much to Bugs' shock. To go down south, Bugs and Playboy hitch a ride on a freight train to New Orleans. Just as Bugs laments on making such a "big fat" promise, Playboy begins to cry again, but Bugs quickly apologizes saying he can't stand to see penguins cry. A hungry hobo, sharing their boxcar, states: "Me neither. Penguins is practically chickens" and decides to make a meal out of Playboy. Bugs stands up for Playboy by pointing out he's bigger than Playboy, so the hobo decides to turn Bugs into rabbit stew, but Bugs coyly trips and kicks the hobo. Just as the hobo runs to him, Bugs opens the door so that the hobo falls off the train, much to Playboy's amusement. Once in New Orleans, Bugs puts Playboy aboard a ship named Admiral Byrd, which he believes is going to the South Pole. Pleased with his good deed, Bugs decides to order a carrot martini at "La Bouche Cafe" and stay for Mardi Gras, which Bugs pronounces as "Madry Grass". The stay, however, is interrupted when Bugs overhears from a captain and a sailor that the Admiral Byrd is bound for Brooklyn, New York — back to where the journey started. Realizing what he's put Playboy into, Bugs swims out to catch up with the ship, rescuing Playboy from the ship's galley, and swimming ashore to Martinique. While Bugs strums a guitar and composes a ballad, Playboy is forced to build a dugout boat. As Bugs is playing, Humphrey Bogart, straight out of the film The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, appears and says "Pardon me, but could you help out a fellow American who's down on his luck?" Bugs reaches into his pocket, flips a coin at him, and dismisses him and says "Hit the road!" After ten days at sea, Bugs is beginning to feel hungry, having not taken any food with them. Upon looking at Playboy, Bugs remembers the hobo saying "and penguins is practically chickens" and decides to eat Playboy, but immediately snaps out of his daze and apologizes to Playboy, just as he spots land. The land, however, is the Panama Canal and when the guard at the first lock demands a quarter for passage through, Bugs decides he and Playboy will continue the journey on foot. As Bugs and Playboy's route is traced out on a map of South America, they are soon captured by some natives  and put into a huge stew pot, at which Bugs blames Playboy for getting them into that mess . Just as a panicked native comes in screaming "El bwana," the natives immediately run away, panic-stricken. As Bugs wonders if the bwana is as dangerous as the natives made it out to be, the strange creature is actually Humphrey Bogart, who then asks Bugs to help him out again. Rather than berate him again, Bugs just gives him a coin for saving his skin and then he and Playboy resume their journey. Bugs and Playboy's route continues down through South America, with Bugs having to swing through trees, outswim a hungry crocodile, and scale a mountain in the Andes. Upon reaching Cape Horn, it's a boat ride down to the tip of Antarctica, and then a journey on foot across the Antarctic ice cap. When they finally reach the South Pole , Bugs angrily tells Playboy that he's done his good deed and so now he's going back home himself. Playboy then begins to cry again, his tears turning into ice cubes from the cold. His conscience nagging at him again, Bugs feels guilty and asks Playboy what's wrong now. Playboy then takes out a flier from his top hat, which tells Bugs that he was born in Hoboken, where the Ice Frolics' main headquarters is at, much to Bugs' shock. Just as Bugs is about to lose his mind over having to take Playboy all the way back, Humphrey Bogart appears again and starts to ask for Bugs' help. Not wanting to go through what he'd been through with Playboy again, Bugs asks Humphrey Bogart to help him instead. With that, he thrusts Playboy into Humphrey Bogart's hands and runs off into the distance while laughing hysterically.{{plot}} The cartoon takes place in Vienna, Austria. The narrator says: "This is the story of a waltzing mouse. His name was Johann and he lived in Vienna  in the home of Johann Strauss."  In the walls of the house of Johann Strauss lived Johann Mouse, portrayed by Jerry. Little Johann loved Strauss' music, and whenever the musician would play, the mouse would dance. And whenever the mouse would dance, Strauss' housecat, portrayed by Tom, would try to catch him but always fail. One day, Strauss goes away on a journey, leaving Tom in a serious predicament . He picks up a manual on top of the piano: "How To Play The Waltz In Six Easy Lessons by Johann Strauss." Tom charges upstairs into the attic and teaches himself how to play, following the guidebook which consists of how to correctly play the first nine notes of The Blue Danube. After six lessons, he is instantaneously an accomplished pianist. Tom takes to the piano downstairs and the mouse is mesmerised by the music, into dancing. Tom attempts to squash Johann with a poker, and as he stops playing to hit Johann, the mouse is roused from his spell and scrambles back towards the hole - until Tom resumes playing. Johann turns around, hypnotised once again. The heads of some servants wondering who was playing in their master's abscense, pop through the door, observing the talented duo. As Tom grabs Johann, the servants applaud. Tom puts Johann down and returns to the piano, with Johann dancing again. The news quickly spreads around Vienna, reaching even the ears of Kaiser Franz Joseph I. Tom and Johann are summoned by a royal writ from the Imperial Palace to perform before the Court. The next scene opens upon the Throne-Room, with many aristocratic ladies and gentlemen, and the Emperor himself, in his throne . In the middle is a white grand piano. The doors open to reveal Tom and Jerry, both in tail-coats and bow-ties, who bow to the Emperor and enter the ballroom. Tom begins playing "Tritsch-Tratsch-Polka", and Jerry/Johann begins waltzing, occasionally using Tom's fingers as a dancing partner. Tom gives into his impulses and tries to capture Jerry, who again escapes into a hole in the wall. "It was the same old story", the narrator concludes. In the last scene, the mouse leaves his hole and dances, bowing to rapturous applause. An angry Tom turns the page to reveal the end of the cartoonIn this cartoon, we start with flashbacks featuring a "Goofy"-like version of Christopher Columbus, who is given a cigar by a Native American. His three ships bring it back to their country, with smoke floating from them. A man in Europe rolls a cigar with a leaf and a midget lights it with a small torch, and we see the impact of the popularity of smoking today. Then we fade to Goofy, in the role of George Geef, who is an extreme nicotine addict, smoking various cigarettes, cigars and pipes, as we watch him smoke during the evening and as he goes to bed , when he wakes up in the morning, as he shaves, as he drinks coffee and at work. But soon his throat tickles and his eyes get irritated and he cannot blow out his matches. So he throws away all of his smoking products and decides to quit. It works fine at first, and feels he can do it. But then the boss congratulates George for being able to quit smoking, and as he lights up a cigarette, he says "It ain't easy. If it was, I'd quit!" Another employee, who is now a father, nearly offers George a cigar in honor of the occasion, but then remembers that he quit smoking. Almost everyone at the office still smokes, and George admits that he loves smoking, and he babbles like crazy and runs out of the office like a madman, leading into the following montage...  Throughout the rest of the cartoon, George is searching for a smoke, while he keeps crying, "Smoke! Smoke! Smoke!" Here's where he finds them, only to have them removed in some way or another. *He tries to go into a tobacco store, but it's now closed. He then swipes a cigar from the wooden Indian statue near the door. He is about to light it, but a voice calls out "Ugh!" and a well-thrown tomahawk splits the cigar in half. *He finds some tobacco from a man filling his pipe and a small piece of paper. He then tries to roll his own cigarette the old-fashioned way, but fails. *He tries to pick up a discarded cigar, but a foot steps on it, flattening it and gets his hand in the process, leaving an imprint on his hand that reads, "Pussyfoot". *He picks up another cigar near an elevator doorway, but the door closes on the cigar and as the elevator rises, so does the cigar. *He goes into a smoking room, but is kicked out because it's for women only. *He struggles with a hobo to get a cigarette, but the hobo wins and bops him in the nose. *He tries to grab a cigar rolling down the street, but it falls into a drainage grate. *He grabs what looks like a cigar from a man with a bunch of them, but it's actually a now-leaky fountain pen. *He picks up a white pipe, but it gets blasted to bits as a target in an amusement park shooting gallery. A barker then says, "And the little man wins a big cigar!" *He looks up to see a janitor on a skyscraper drop a cigarette. He eagerly holds out his hand to get it, and even tries to use a ladder to get it, but when he does, it's spent completely; nothing but ashes are left of the cigarette. *Finally, an elderly gentleman gives him a cigar, but it's an exploding cigar, which George still smokes, while the narrator says, "Give a smoker enough rope, and he'll hang...on to his habit."Moe is on trial for assaulting Larry and Joe. Moe appeals to the judge , claiming he is a sick man who was instructed by his doctor to maintain peace and quiet. This peace is broken by Larry and Joe who are loudly rehearsing their "The Original Two-Man Quartet" routine to serenade Moe. Moe cracks, and wraps Larry's trombone slides around the quartet's neck. Realizing Moe is in bad shape, Larry and Joe decide to take their ailing leader on a hunting trip to relieve his stress. Moe takes to the idea like ducks to bread, and the Stooges start packing. No sooner do they arrive in an empty cabin when a hungry bear devours some eggs and potatoes while Moe has his back turned. His nerves double frayed, Moe asks Larry and Joe to pursue the bear. One thing leads to another, and the bear ends up behind the wheel of the Stooges' car, driving away with it. Then, when Moe thinks he is at the end of his rope, the Stooges get involved with a sheriff  in hot pursuit of outlaw Mad Bill Hookup . Back in the courtroom, Moe ends his story by concluding that he must go back to bed for six additional months. The judge takes pity on the poor Stooge, and finds him not guilty. Joe and Larry are disgusted by the ruling and are about to get theirs. But thanks to Larry's tough skull the axe is now broken and Moe begins to lose his nerves again.{{Expand section}} A shaggy dog is the guard at a farm's chicken coop when a lip-smacking weasel comes along, intending to gain access to the chickens. And, never one to side with a canine, Foghorn Leghorn opts to help the weasel by trying to violently remove the guard dog.Introduction: The Road Runner is "zipping along" by a train, and the camera zooms in and then freezes for his "Latin" name: Velocitus Tremenjus. When the cartoon restarts, the Road Runner leaves the train and runs onto the main roads, with the coyote watching from above. He glances from side to side, and the camera freezes for Wile E. Coyote  halfway through his head turning. True to this name, he ventures down the mountain and toward the road, waiting for the familiar Beep-beep sound; when this reaches his ears, he jumps into a 4-way intersection, but the Road Runner mows him down from behind. When the seething coyote stands up, facing the opposite direction, he is flattened from the other side, and then eventually from all four directions. The camera cuts to Wile E., who looks increasingly annoyed as this sequence repeats over and over until the camera cuts away. 1. Lying in wait behind a rock with a hand grenade, the coyote mistakenly chews off the grenade and throws the stop at the Road Runner, and once Wile E. realizes the gaffe, the explosion hits. 2. Wile E. now inspects the roads from a high overlook and peers out to see that the Road Runner has disappeared temporarily. That ends when the bird pops up behind Wile E. and beeps, then dashes away, leaving a lifesize cloud of dust behind that also beeps at the coyote. He reclines on the rail, miffed at the turn of events. 3. As the cartoon returns to the regular desert scenery, Wile E. gingerly drops a bunch of mousetraps onto the road, but when the Road Runner zooms past, instead of getting trapped in them, the traps drop onto Wile in his trench hideout. The coyote's reaction is delayed briefly before he yelps in pain. 4. Resorting now to ACME products, these being a kite kit and bomb, Wile E. leaps in the air several times in an attempt to go airborne, but soon runs off the edge of the cliff he is on, and he falls to the ground and his own bomb explodes on him. 5. The Road Runner is zipping along some roads while Wile E. is chopping down a power pole. Wile E. confirms the path of the Road Runner and finishes chopping, but he is too late. When the power pole that Wile E. chopped traverses the road, all of the other poles fall as well due to the power lines pulling them down. The one directly to the left lands directly on Wile and knocks him into the ground. 6. Living up to the Wile part of his name, Wile E. offers bird seed mixed with steel shot to the Road Runner, who stops his road-burning and has a quick snack. Wile E. jumps out behind the bird as he speeds away with a giant magnet, but lucky only he could be, a big TNT canister is attracted to the magnet and another explosion results, twisting the magnet into a pretzel and knocking Wile E. back through a rock face. 7. Delving deeper into wily trickery, the coyote learns hypnotism from a book to induce the Road Runner to jump off a cliff. He tests the method successfully on a small bug by projecting a static lightning from his hands. However, when he jumps out and tries to hit the Road Runner with it, the bird is wise to this, holding a mirror that causes the lightning to be reflected back to Wile E. who, in only succeeding in hypnotising himself, obligingly walks off the cliff. 8. The Road Runner taunts his opponent from above, and the coyote attempts to use a seesaw and rock contraption, but the rock simply falls directly back on its owner. 9. Now, Wile E. sets a gun trap for the Road Runner, with himself ready to activate the guns at a moment's notice. He hides behind a turn as the Road Runner runs into the trap. However, because of the force he applied to the strings, the guns are pulled into the crosshairs of the coyote when they are activated, and he ends up shooting himself. 10. The coyote now hides behind a rock as he waits for the Road Runner to speed across a treacherous suspension bridge. As the Road Runner crosses, Wile E. jumps out and cuts the ropes, but instead of causing the bridge to fall, the whole plateau that Wile E. inhabits falls down. The Road Runner brakes at the end of the bridge and continues his rampage. 11. Wile E. waits for the Road Runner to pass and then loads himself into a "human cannonball" cannon, which unfortunately recoils and is thrown backwards, leaving the coyote blackened. 12. The coyote is now on top of a rectangular board bridging a deep canyon with a large wrecking ball at his command. He drops the ball into a circular path, which would have hit the Road Runner if the bird hadn't stopped and waited. The ball continues its circle and ends up right back where it started - on top of the coyote. 13. One last time, the coyote attempts to ensnare his nemesis. He mines a canyon with myriad explosives behind a doorway with many "FREE BIRD SEED" declarations and connects the main controller to the door. Unfortunately, as soon as the coyote climbs over the wall, he encounters a gigantic truck. With no recourse, Wile E. opens the door and is blown up repeatedly, then run over by the truck. Wile E. sticks out his tongue and beeps in an imitation of the Road Runner, and then falls unconscious.Bugs is cooking carrots on a rotisserie and singing. Yosemite Sam is hunting and smells carrots cooking knowing a rabbit must be near. In a "breaking the fourth wall" moment, a patron in the movie theater comes across and then Sam threatens to shoot him, so the person goes back to his seat. He also passes a warning to other patrons. As Sam nears the hole, Bugs thinks that Sam's nose is a carrot, flavours it and yanks Sam into his hole and bites his nose. Sam demands Bugs to come out. Bugs refuses. Bugs puts bubble gum so the gun backfires and surrounds Sam in bubble gum bubble and Bugs blows him down a cliff. As Sam is blowing his way back up, Bugs burst Sam's bubble gum with a pin. After bubble gum sticky situation, Sam digs around the hole with Bugs in it and puts him in a sieve filtering Bugs out. Sam takes Bugs by gunpoint and takes him to his cabin. Bugs is hanging by a rope and Sam is putting wood in the oven. After a few annoyances for Sam with his hat, Bugs is obliged to go into the oven. Bugs comes out several times and brings in some items like a fan and a pitcher of water, chairs, party favors, emptying ashtrays in Sam's hat. Sam gets mad and Bugs pops out of the stove  and tells Sam there is party going on and Sam goes inside. Bugs comes out and starts putting more wood in the fire, but Bugs has regrets. When Bugs takes a look inside, he sees that the party is real. Bugs goes back in and comes out in the end with party favors and wearing a hat and says and joins in.The Stooges are separate characters in this short. Larry is a womanizer who is having an affair with Moe's wife, and making eyes at Shemp's fiancee, Millie , as well. Moe, however, tracks down the conniving Larry at his pet shop, and gives him the works. Larry is able to think fast and convinces Moe he's innocent, which calms him down. Realizing he needs to cover his tracks, Larry looks for a "fall guy" in the form of Shemp. Larry then gets Shemp a job as an underwear salesman and the first place he goes is Moe's home.  While Shemp is modeling his ware for Moe's wife, Larry calls both Millie and Moe and lies to them about Shemp's advances on Moe's wife. Both of them go storming over to Moe's, with Moe carrying a loaded gun. Looking to avoid being killed, Shemp flees up the chimney. After he fools Moe with a Santa Claus disguise, Shemp makes a quick getaway. Shemp then spies Larry coming. Now aware that Larry set him up, Shemp knocks Larry out and dresses him in the Santa outfit and sends him to Moe, Millie and Moe's wife. Moe unmasks Larry to the surprise of them all and chases him out of the apartment. Moe shoots Larry in the rear a few times before accidentally shooting himself in the foot while celebrating.In a small village on the Faroe Islands, the people's only source of income is trapping a local breed of wild birds. The corrupt capitalist Mr. Brause exploits the locals, forcing them to work for a low wage while selling the birds with a high profit. A disease strikes the village, and many inhabitants become ill. A local physician, Dr. Stefan Horn, discoveres that the source of the sickness is the birds. He sends a telegram to a medical research institute in Copenhagen. The scientists in the capital corroborate his suspicions. Brause destroys their letter and tells the villagers that they can continue with their trade. Eventually, Stefan and his cousin, Arne, manage to expose the truth before the people. Brause flees the islands.Introduction: Like all Sam Sheepdog and Ralph Wolf shorts, this one revolves around Ralph Wolf trying to steal the sheep which Sam Sheepdog is guarding. 1. Ralph's first plan is to sneak under a sheep and carry it off, wearing it as a disguise. When Ralph is caught by Sam he attempts to push the sheep away and act innocent, but Sam punches him in the nose, turning his nose into an accordion. 2. As in all three earlier episodes, Ralph devises a plan that involves tunnelling under the field and digging very small holes through the surface. This time, he creates the hole a safe distance away and surveys the area with a periscope. After spotting a sheep, he attempts to capture it with a lasso, but accidentally snags Sam, who punches him in the head. This time, Ralph walks away with his entire body turned into an accordion. 3. Ralph's third plan is to build a simple suspension bridge out of firecrackers and lure Sam to the other side. When Sam passes, Ralph grabs a sheep, lights the firecrackers, and runs across the bridge, ensuring that Sam has no way to return. However, Sam uses his uncanny ability to appear at the other end of the bridge, where he prompts Ralph to hand over the sheep. Ralph begins running toward the burning end of the bridge  and extinguishes the firecracker. However, Sam lit the other end of the bridge, and Ralph's bridge disappears beneath him. 4. Ralph then attempts to place a makeshift teeter totter under Sam and jump on the other end from a great height. However, because of Sam's weight, the board merely acts as a springboard, tossing Ralph into Sam's arms. Sam places Ralph on one end of the teeter totter and slams the other end down as hard as he can, sending Ralph flying through the air. 5. Next, Ralph wheels a giant, lit cannon, up a hill behind Sam. As Ralph runs away, giddy, the cannon begins to roll down after him. As Ralph notices this, he runs as fast as he can, until he reaches the edge of a cliff, which has a very small cliff immediately below it. Ralph climbs onto the cliff and turtles. The cannon stops on the edge of the cliff, but has enough momentum to flip the cannon over so it's pointing straight down at Ralph. Ralph, curious if he's safe, stands up, only to discover that he's inside the cannon just before the cannon is about to fire. 6. In Ralph's final attempt, he sneaks up behind Sam and attaches each end of a very large elastic band to rocks on either side of Sam to create an over-sized slingshot. As Ralph pulls the band back, the rocks loosen and fire past him, anchoring themselves into opposing sides of a chasm, and slinging Ralph through the chasm. On the other side of the chasm, Ralph grabs hold of a tree and holds on for dear life, but the elasticity of the rubber band slings the two rocks into Ralph, sending Ralph, the two rocks, and a piece of the tree flying, while the rubber band is still wrapped around the rest of the tree. Ralph manages to free himself from the two rocks and the piece of tree, only to run into a cliff face and be crushed by the items. As Ralph crawls out from under the wreck, the rest of the tree slings into Ralph. Finally, the punch clock whistle blows and Ralph and Sam walk home. Ralph has two black eyes, an arm in a sling, and is stumbling. Sam reassuringly suggests that Ralph take the next day off, and that Sam can handle both jobs.Daffy learns that a "refined, lady duck" with an income is seeking someone to marry. After the requisite courtship and marriage, Daffy looks forward to a life of luxury. However, the woman -- an oversized lady duck whose personality is as domineering as her size -- immediately orders Daffy to do the housework; when Daffy objects, his bill is slapped off his face. After an afternoon of exhausting tasks, he is startled by the appearance of Wentworth, a rambunctious duckling whom Daffy wants nothing to do with. After being scalped playing cowboys and Indians, Daffy -- after being shown the bank book -- is made to take Wentworth to the amusement park. There, Daffy tries his luck at a shooting gallery, but each time the duck takes a shot, Wentworth uses a slingshot to bean the back of the barker's head; eventually, the angry barker socks Daffy. His disgusted wife assumes that Daffy is "fried to the gills" and orders him to bed, since he's got to help Wentworth shoot off fireworks on the Fourth of July. The holiday begins with Daffy taking the brunt of a fireworks mishap, followed by Wentworth disguising himself as a lit firecracker. Daffy, wanting to teach the brat a lesson, thinks he's found him and begins to discipline him -- only to see the disguised Wentworth racing by, just seconds before the firecracker explodes. The woman duck then demands that Daffy take Wentworth to the zoo. Despite a threat from his wife to pluck every feather from his body, Daffy stands his ground, "No zoo.". He then walks out the door with packed suitcases in hand, retorting, "Nobody's going to tell this little black duck what to do!" His body  has been stripped clean of feathers, just as his now ex-wife had promised.Bugs Bunny is vacationing in the Ozarks and stumbles into the territory of two hillbilly brothers Curt and Punkin'head Martin. After having several of their hunting attempts foiled, Curt and Punkin'head Martin are determined to get revenge on Bugs for their humiliation. Bugs easily outsmarts them and eventually leads them into a violent square dance involving repeated slapstick comedy gags. The square dance song starts as a straight forward version of "Skip to My Lou" while the jukebox band starts and plays and Bugs dances in a dress. Then Bugs deliberately unplugs the jukebox and takes over the fiddling and square dance calling, still to the melody and rhythm of the song before saying "And that is all." before the cartoon ends.Spike has just bathed Tyke so that he is nice and clean. However, Spike is horrified when, through the constant chases of Tom and Jerry, Tyke ends up getting dirty by falling into a muddy puddle. Spike grabs Tom and scolds him that if Tyke isn't clean at all, the feline will be in trouble with the law. Tom quickly rushes off with the muddy pup and returns almost instantly with Tyke cleaned up. Tom grudgingly agrees to look after the pup and ensure his cleanliness until Spike returns, Jerry of course being ready to sabotage this. As Tom sits down on the same wooden platform that Tyke is lying on, one of the wooden planks catapults Tyke into the air, and Tom narrowly saves Tyke from falling into the same muddy puddle. Tom overhears Jerry's laughter and chases after him. Jerry quickly stops the cat, and challenges him to a game of tic-tac-toe on Tyke's back. Tom wins and resumes chasing Jerry, before suddenly realizing what he's done, and promptly returns to Tyke to rub off his pencil marks. Jerry hurls a tomato at Tom, but Tom quickly ducks so that it avoids him. Realizing that it will hit Tyke instead he yelps with fear and Tom rushes back and stands directly in front of the pup so that the tomato does hit him after all. The chase resumes until Tyke ends up with a jar of ink spilled on him. Tom panics after seeing Tyke covered in ink and attempts to rub the ink off but fails. Tom grabs some paint tins, painting Tyke first white, then gray, but Jerry pushes the paint containers so that Tom ends up dipping his paintbrush into a variety of different colors. Tyke has now been painted a multi-colored mess of reds, blues, greens and yellows. Horrified, Tom grabs a hose so that he can wash the paint off, but Jerry connects the other end of the hosepipe to a large container of tar. Out of the hosepipe comes thick, black, sticky tar. Tom sees that Spike is approaching, and decides he had better act quickly. Tom spots a pillow hanging on a washing line, and stuffs Tyke into it and takes him out, which leaves Tyke covered in feathers. He then places a red glove on Tyke's head and a clothes peg on his mouth, so that Tyke crudely resembles a chicken of sorts. Spike is surprisingly fooled and walks off. However, Tyke removes the peg from his mouth and bites Tom's tail. Tom screams in pain and alerts Spike, causing him to turn and investigate. Tom rushes off and hides in the laundry room, putting Tyke inside a washing machine. Tom however is too late to do anything; just as he is adding soap flakes, Spike stops him and takes Tyke out of the washing machine. Catching on to what had happened to Tyke, an angry Spike pours the box of soap flakes over Tom's head and shoves a soap bar in his mouth before he shoves Tom in the washing machine and slams the door on him. Now Tom ends up taking a shower around the washing machine as Spike and Tyke look on. Both of them are joined by Jerry, who waves at the cat as the cartoon closes.Tom and his cat friends—Butch, Lightning, and Meathead—are singing loudly in the middle of the night. The cats drop Tom off at home; he is now very tired. He climbs up onto the window ledge. Mammy Two-Shoes  chastises Tom. Tom goes to the kitchen and nearly falls asleep, until Mammy warns him that he will be kicked out of the house if she catches him sleeping. Jerry hears Mammy's warnings and decides to make things difficult for Tom, encouraging the cat to fall asleep in order to get him thrown out. Tom ends up drinking loads of coffee to keep himself alert. Even after drinking from the whole pot, Tom still falls asleep until Mammy asks him Was you sleeping?. Tom shakes his head, Tom continues to try everything to stay awake. Tom cunningly paints yellow circles on his eyelids to give the illusion that he is awake though his eyes are closed and he is sleeping. Mammy is led to believe that Tom is awake, but Jerry sees through Tom's ploy, Jerry decides to rips off part of Tom's fur. The cat is immediately woken and chases after Jerry, but Jerry has made signs , Tom stops to read them: Are you sleepy? Want a bed? Solid comfort - straight ahead. Jerry's signs lead Tom to Mammy's bedroom, where Tom falls asleep. Jerry watches as an unsuspecting Mammy sees Tom on her bed, and violently throws Tom out of the house. Tom crashes into a fence, but soon falls asleep once again. Around the corner come Tom's friends, upon spotting the sleeping Tom they pick him up and drag him along with them through the alleyway. Once again singing in the moonlight.A large bulldog bullies two unwilling parties—a frightened cat and a tough-talking mouse—into various scams to obtain dinner from various residences. The scheme involves the dog, who forever complains that he is "starving," using the cat to pose as the pet for three residents and a municipal zoo. The cat poses as : * "Butch," a turtleneck-wearing feline. The cat timidly walks to the waiting bulldog to hand him his steak, only to get slapped for forgetting the gravy. * A bow-tied "Harold," who is scolded by his female "mistress" as he comes home. "Harold" tries to eat a leg of chicken when the mistress leaves the room, but is quickly grabbed by the bulldog, who again reprimands him for forgetting the gravy. * "Timothy," the alley cat who serves as the mouse catcher for an older gentleman living in a brownstone apartment building. The cat swallows the mouse whole, earning more physical punishment; the mouse tries unsuccessfully to get away after he is spit out. After earning another steak from the owner, the cat is again slapped by the bulldog for forgetting the gravy again. The mouse tries to get tough, but is simply hit on the head. * As a "saber-tooth alley catus," complete with fake fangs. The zookeeper shrugs his shoulders at the apparently new, unannounced "exhibit." It is at this point where the cat tries to one-up his captor by wrapping a TNT stick inside the steak. The result is only a small blast in the dog's stomach, which the embarrassed dog apparently misinterprets as gas and excuses himself. He smacks the cat  for forgetting the gravy yet again, then starts to complain that "week in, week out, it's the same thing; it's too slow!" He then sees a sign advertising a reward for lost animals and gets a sinister idea: Holding the cat hostage for weeks, the dog accurately anticipates that the cat's "owners" will post rewards in the newspaper. "I've got plans for you!" the dog snarls. The bulldog reads the missing animals article in the newspaper for the addresses and reward amounts from the owners and prepares to execute his big scam  The bulldog returns the cat to each of his masters, collects the reward and then reclaims his cat by means of a trick-bed, the largest of the rewards coming from the zoo. The dog, gloating that he is now "set for life" and will "never be hungry again," uses his ill-gotten gains to purchase a butcher shop, where "acres and acres" of meat hang from the ceiling. The final scene takes place at a "dog and cat hospital". The bulldog's gluttony has gotten the better of him, as his overindulgence on meat has rendered him grossly obese and unable to move a muscle. After two doctors diagnose "a distinct case of overeating" and depart from the operating room, two visitors march in: the cat and the mouse. The cat—speaking for the only time in the film—menacingly says, "This time, we didn't forget the gravy." The mouse jams a large funnel into the dog's mouth and smiles as the cat begins force-feeding the dog from an institutional-sized canister of gravy. The nervously-perspiring dog mutters "no" several times but is helpless to stop them as the picture irises out over the sound of the dog gurgling; with the cat and mouse finally getting their revenge.The story begins with Jack summing up resent events leading up to the start of the story:{{cquote}} Daffy trades his cow and is hornswoggled with a trade of three beans. Subsequently he tosses out the beans and they land right into Bugs Bunny’s rabbit hole. A beanstalk erupts shortly after, and Jack decides to climb it. During his climb, he meets Bugs who is in bed, and kicks him away. Realising his situation, Bugs decides to tag along. Meanwhile, Jack reaches the top of beanstalk, excited about stealing the fortune that the giant's castle holds, until he meets the giant himself. Jack's excitement turns into panic and he runs from the giant just as Bugs reaches the top. As the giant closes in on the duo, Bugs tells the giant to get Jack instead, after that's whom he is originally after. Jack frantically tries to pass this off as a lie, declaring his name to be Aloysius, and that Bugs is Jack . As the two start to argue of who the real Jack is, the giant decides to "open with a pair of Jacks" and capture both of them and takes them to his castle, where he traps Bugs and Jack under a glass cake dome to prepare to grind their bones to make some bread. However, they manage to escape because Bugs has an ACME glass cutter in his possession. The giant then continues to chase the two around his castle as they are trying to escape. The chase continues until Bugs manages to trip the giant, knocking him unconscious. Bugs wants to go home, but the greedy Jack decides to stay so he can steal from the giant. As Bugs is running towards the beanstalk, he comes across the giant's equally large carrot garden ready to be eaten. Later that night, as a very full Bugs rests under one of the giant carrots he has been eating, he wonders what has become of Jack, who is trapped inside the giant's pocket watch, acting like the minute and hour hands, while constantly making tick tock sounds.{{Plot}} Jerry tries to steal food from the refrigerator while he is unknowingly being watched by Tom. Jerry is then attacked . While Jerry watches Tom for any further shenanigans, he fails to see the wall in front of him and runs into it. The cat laughs and sits down, and Jerry breaks out of the wall and onto the floor. The impact force tips a bottle of white shoe polish from the shelf above to fall out and colour Jerry white. Tom, rid of Jerry for the moment, reads a magazine and listens to the radio until a breaking news story is announced, that an escaped laboratory white mouse, that has consumed explosives that can blow up an entire city is on the loose. The slightest jar would cause the mouse to explode. While listening to this, Jerry knows that Tom will mistake him for the white mouse. Indeed, the cat is scared: he slams the open window shut and relaxes himself by eating some nuts. As he breaks open the nuts with a hammer, Jerry uses this opportunity and stands on the table. Tom grabs the mouse, thinking he is a nut, but stops the hammer when he feels Jerry, and looks to see the "white" mouse. Tom jumps away and dashes to the phone to call the police. Jerry whistles at him and tries to fall off the table, and Tom immediately sets a pillow for Jerry to fall on. Tom tries make a call again, but Jerry draws attention to himself trying to drop the lid of the piano onto himself, and Tom has to substitute his head. Tom sneaks away and tries to make a call a third time, but sees Jerry jumping off a butter knife. Tom blows Jerry to safety. Jerry drops an iron towards the cat. He blows his lungs out before getting it in his face. Tom begins a chase, which ends quickly when Jerry threatens to hit himself with a hammer. The cat begs the "white mouse" not to do it, and Jerry takes this chance to whack his enemy on the head. Tom stopped by the mouse renewing his "suicidal" threat allows Jerry to hit him on the head several times. Satisfied, the rodent filches a few cookies, which gives the cat the chance to swipe the hammer. In response, Jerry bounces himself on the counter making the cat to flinch. The mouse continues bouncing across the counter, but does not see the sink full of water and loses his disguise. Tom sees this and allows Jerry to bounce and hits himself with the hammer. Not knowing he's been exposed, Jerry hits himself even harder and ends up bruising himself. Tom then takes the hammer and pounds Jerry into the counter like a nail. To complete his enemy's torment, Tom grabs Jerry by the tail and takes him to the mirror to show him that the disguise did not work. Jerry sheepishly smiles, and is thrown out of the house. Meanwhile, the true white mouse appears through the mail slot and as Tom kicks Jerry out, he runs into the house. Tom goes back to reading his magazine and he hears the white mouse eating some nuts. Thinking that Jerry is trying to fool him again, Tom tries to attack him with his hammer and catches him, then tries to wash the "polish" off in the fishbowl. When this still leaves the mouse white, he tries using a washboard, and before Tom sets the mouse off, Jerry reveals himself on the windowsill. Tom notices that he is carrying the real white mouse and gets the fright of his life. Trembling, he fumbles over the phone to call the police, but before he can dial the number, the radio announcer comes back on the air with news that the mouse isn't liable to explode. Tom cheers up instantly and takes the white mouse to be kicked out of the window and Jerry jumps off the window and is not seen in the cartoon again. The moment his foot makes contact, a massive explosion reduces the entire town to a giant crater. All that is left of the neighborhood is rubble and the speaker of the radio which states: "We repeat, the white mouse will not explode". An injured Tom emerges from a pile of rubble and drones, "Don't you believe it!"A narrator  discusses automobiles and their advancements throughout the last few decades. A meek, short man with a moustache and glasses is seen in many of the sketches. Gags include: * A pan across many motorists stuck on the road  because a woman in the first car is too busy putting on lipstick. * A man treating his car like a horse, whipping it to make it go faster. * A bridge that has half the toll, but that's because it's only half finished. * The meek man parking his car in a lot and getting it back in a paper-thin condition. * The meek man measuring his car before putting it in a friend's garage, but accidentally hitting the car on a tree branch. * The meek man looking both ways before crossing a rural road but still getting hit by a fast-speed car. * The meek man allowing a stranded motorist to siphon some of his gas, only to swallow the gasoline and begin sputtering down the road like a car. * The meek man being towed by a fellow motorist but the car frame getting ripped off when the other driver leaves in a hurry. * The meek man repeatedly stopping at a hamburger stand on a freeway, asking for directions off the freeway. The hamburger stand man eventually realizes he doesn't know the way off the freeway and had to open the stand to keep from starving to death. The meek man does the same, only his stand sells mustard and pickles to accompany the burgers.Introduction: Like all Sam Sheepdog and Ralph Wolf shorts, this one revolves around Ralph Wolf trying to steal the sheep which Sam Sheepdog is guarding. Ralph does not work with Sam in this one, unlike later shorts.  1. Ralph's first plan is to trick Sam into going home early, by turning the time on the punch clock forward and setting the whistle off. Sam is initially tricked into thinking that the whistle indicated quitting time, punches out, and heads home. However, he quickly notices on the clock of a church steeple that it's 9:00 with its bells chiming and hurries back to see Ralph carrying a comically large pile of sheep. Sam Sheepdog suddenly appears behind a tree and breaks a tree branch over Ralph's head, driving Ralph into the ground . 2. Ralph's second attempt involves disguising himself as a bush. After stealing a sheep and starting to run away, he runs past Sam, who himself is disguised as a tree and starts to follow Ralph. Sam hits Ralph on the head with a branch, leaving Ralph very confused and with a large lump on his head. After attempting to run further, this occurs once more, and Ralph is left with two lumps on his head. Ralph then gives up and carries the sheep back to the field as Sam impatiently taps his foot . 3. For Ralph's third attempt, he reads a book of Greek myths which explains that Pan would "lull shepherds to sleep with the music of his pipes and then steal the sheep." Disguising himself as Pan, Ralph attempts to lull Sam to sleep with a flute, but Sam merely punches Ralph in the face and Ralph stumbles away and continues to play his song, out of tune. 4. Ralph's fourth attempt involves tunnelling under the field and pulling each sheep down through very small holes. This is mostly successful, until Ralph unwittingly pulls Sam underground and gets punched in the face. Ralph politely returns all the sheep and refills his tunnel. 5. In Ralph's next attempt, he places an Acme product behind Sam, labelled "One Acme wild-cat - Handle with care". Ralph carefully opens the box with a rope from a distance behind another hill, but the wildcat simply runs in circles towards Ralph, maims him and scratches him. 6. Ralph's sixth attempt is to swing on a rope over the field and snatch a sheep. Unfortunately, he unwittingly snatches Sam out of the flock. After realizing this, he leaves Sam at the bottom of the rope and climbs to the branch that the rope is tied to and saws the end of the branch off. After seemingly sending Sam crashing to the ground, Sam appears on further down the branch and saws it off at that point, sending Ralph falling. After Ralph seemingly hits the ground, he appears at the start of the branch. This gag continues until Sam is on the end of a cliff and Ralph uses a pick axe to detach the edge of the cliff and send Sam falling. The cartoon then disobeys gravity and leaves Sam's piece of earth floating in the air, as the rest of the cliff which Ralph is standing on falls down. 7. Ralph's next, seventh, and seemingly final attempt is to snatch a sheep which is drinking from edge of a lake. He uses a hollow rush to swim through the lake unnoticed. Sam notices the rush sticking out of the water and drops a stick of dynamite into it. Damaged by a small underwater explosion like "tsunami", Ralph surfaces and then sinks like a ship. 8. At the end of the short, Sam walks toward the punch clock as his replacement George Sheepdog punches in and greets him. Sam hits him over the head with a plank, and the viewers see that George is really Ralph in a disguise. As Sam begins spanking Ralph with the club, the REAL George Sheepdog shows up and takes over for him, who continues spanking Ralph.The story opens at night with an unseen Bugs preparing to go to sleep. A highway is in the background and immediately after Bugs retires Elmer Fudd drives up because he has seen a rare desert flower next to Bugs' hole that he wants to put in his tropical garden. Elmer does not notice the rabbit hole and is unaware of Bugs' presence, but he is careful when digging up the flower to include lots of room so that the flower can "prosper in its native soil". Elmer does not realize is that he has unknowingly taken Bugs as well as the flower back to his penthouse apartment. The next scene has Bugs emerging from the hole still half-asleep. He obliviously goes into Elmer's penthouse thinking he is headed to his "bathing stream", which instead is a large Roman-styled bathroom with an indoor pool in the middle. Bugs gets into the pool and realizes that he is not in his stream but thinks his surroundings are a mirage so he plays along by splashing around and singing "There's no place like home" but instead substituting Rome for home. Bugs then sings the word "yearn" but, sensing that he might be signing out of tune, gets out of the pool and goes into the next room, where he plays and note on a piano and sings "yearn, fa la yearn" until he is in tune. Elmer sees Bugs go back into the "bathroom" and wonders why Bugs is there. Elmer then gets a shotgun and fires several shots into the pool. Bugs submerges under the water as if he has been killed but then hops out and sneaks behind Elmer, whispering into his ear: "You better plug him again, Mac, just to be sure." Elmer then inserts the barrel of the shotgun into the water and shoots, which results in him blowing a hole in the floor which causes the water to spill into the apartment underneath him. Then a knock is heard on Elmer's door and it is his downstairs neighbor, who is twice Elmer's size and soaking wet. The neighbor grabs the shotgun and ties the barrel around Elmer's head, then fires the gun before leaving. Bugs then is seen in the patio area of the penthouse when Elmer tries to shoot him, but constantly misses. Bugs then asks if Elmer is trying to get rid of him and, when Elmer says that "rabbits don't belong in penthouses" accuses Elmer of thinking he is "better" than a rabbit and if Elmer can prove that he is better, Bugs will leave. Elmer accepts the challenge and Bugs fashions several contests around the penthouse that Elmer wins, but not before suffering large consequences. The first two events are a strength test and then a shooting test, both of which Bugs loses. He then says that there is one more event, the "jump test". Bugs fails his test, which involves jumping over an outdoor bench, and then sets up the bench for Elmer. However, Bugs positions the bench vertically and near the overlook of the penthouse so that when Elmer jumps over it, he is actually jumping off the edge of the building. Elmer flies over the edge and lands on the ground in a popcorn machine, and Bugs admits that Elmer is "a better man than I am, but only because I'm a rabbit" and then departs down the sidewalk with the flower that Elmer had dug up in the opening scene.Foghorn Leghorn takes pity on Miss Prissy, whom the other hens are ridiculing because of her inability to lay an egg. To give her confidence, Foghorn slips one of the other hen's eggs in Miss Prissy's nest. Before long, the egg hatches a rooster chick. When Foghorn finds, he is not pleased at the presence of another rooster. Seeing the hens glares, he decides to play along, but quickly finds out it may not be long before the little rooster chick takes over Foghorn. Foghorn makes some attempts to get rid of the rooster chick under the premise of teaching the chick to be a rooster. However, each of these attempts ends with Foghorn getting the worst end of things, until finally Foghorn decides to have a talk with the farm owner, but he gets caged and taken away in a truck.The film begins with the bear family sleeping peacefully at home, when suddenly, the alarms of dozens of alarm clocks located on the Junyer Bear's table begin to sound, causing Pa Bear wakes up completely altered and run to try to turn them off. Junyer excited wakes up and exclaims: - "Oh, boy! At last the great day has come at last! Oh, boy!" -. Henry  asks how to stop the alarms, to what his child responds making a sign to them for they shut up and they obey. Dad gets angry and stars a clock in the face of his son. Mom replies: - "But, Henry ..." -; Henry shouts: - "Well! What do you Want!?" -; To what Mom says, "It's Father's Day, Dear." Then mom and baby bear make several activities to please Dad on his day, but getting only cause discomfort and misery, ending with a theatrical presentation in which there are three numbers, of which the latter has a song called Let's Give A Cheer For father. This number ends with the mother and baby Bear dressed as parents of the American homeland , who have dressed Henry as the Statue of Liberty and end up shooting fireworks, as an allegory of July 4th.Bugs Bunny and his nephew Clyde Rabbit are sitting on a couch looking at a scrap book depicting various photographs and newspaper clippings of Bugs. In this cartoon Clyde is unnamed. Segment one has Clyde asking if Uncle Bugs was a baseball pitcher and Bugs replying that he was "the best". This segment uses clips from Baseball Bugs. Bugs does not reveal the conclusion of his baseball hit but when his nephew asks what happened, Bugs replies that he went into Vaudeville. Segment two uses a clip from Stage Door Cartoon. Bugs' nephew then asks what happened with the act and Bugs says he broke it up because "my partner demanded equal billing" and then adds that "there was more money in boxing anyway". Segment three has Bugs telling his nephew that he fought "The Champ" at "Madison Round Garden". Two clips from Rabbit Punch are used. By Round 110 Bugs says the fight ended because "along came the war". In segment four, a brief clip from Falling Hare is shown as Bugs explains that he was a test pilot assigned to a supersonic aircraft . He further explains that while flying the aircraft something went wrong and it heads toward the ground, nose first, then stops a few inches from impact because the plane "ran out of gas". In the last segment, Bugs' nephew looks at him with admiration and says: "Gosh, Uncle Bugs, you've been everyplace, I guess...except the moon", when Bugs replies that he's been there too, and points to newspaper clipping in the scrapbook. Then a clip from Haredevil Hare is shown. Bugs then begins to explain that he was lucky that he had plenty of carrots, because it took scientists 22 years to build a ladder to reach him. After the moon story Bugs' nephew looks at him with doubt, prompty Bugs to reply: "Don't you believe me? Why if every word I've said isn't true, I hope I'm run over by a streetcar", and suddenly a streetcar appears in the room and runs over Bugs. He then looks at his alarmed nephew and says: "I suppose you don't believe I was run over by a streetcar!"Introduction: The pair zooms into view and begin to chase, freezing momentarily for the credits and Latin names to be shown: COYOTE: Famishus Vulgaris and ROAD RUNNER: Birdibus Zippibus. From here, the Road Runner speeds off, leaving the coyote to fall on the ground. Wile recovers quickly, kicks up some dust, and begins to chase the Road Runner; the bird, though, leaves so much dust in the road that his pursuer cannot see ahead. Eventually, except for his ears, the coyote is completely enclosed in the dust. The Road Runner pulls next to the coyote and beeps, alerting Wile to his surroundings. The coyote's expression becomes foreboding, and the camera cuts out to show both apparently suspended in midair. As the dust clears, the coyote pokes his hands through the bottom of the cloud, and then looks down to see nothing but air below him. The dust completely clears, showing that the Road Runner is perched on the edge of a cliff and the coyote on the wrong side of him, and gravity then turns on. Determined not to let this happen again, Wile climbs up a very high escarpment and surveys his surroundings for the Road Runner...who happens to have pulled up right behind him and now beeps such that the coyote falls back down. The camera zooms in on an obviously miffed Wile as he falls to the ground again. Dusting himself off, the coyote gets up and walks out onto the road until the Road Runner beeps a second time and sends his rival directly into a low-slung rock plateau. 1. As he hasn't studied it enough, Wile follows the instructions of THE ART OF ROAD-RUNNER TRAPPING: # Dig hole in road # Camouflage hole # Wait patiently # Eat Road Runner However, he never gets past the first step, as his jackhammer vibrates enough to pull the coyote into the hole. When the power cord stretches enough to unplug the jackhammer, the coyote climbs out and finds himself vibrating sporadically. Wile walks over to the book and prepares to tear it in half, but another vibration does the job for him. 2. Still trying to halt the Road Runner, Wile builds a brick wall on the mountain roads and waits. Soon, he hears the Road Runner braking in front of the wall. When his ears recover from the sonic assault and the dust cloud settles, he quizzically looks around the corner of the wall to see his own rear end. Wile makes random movements, imitated by his rear, while looking behind and ahead of him, and finally determines that this is a duplicate of himself and rolls dynamite under his own rear. The firework promptly explodes, and Wile laughs until he realizes his own tail is aflame; he leaps directly into the air in pain and falls down to the ground. 3. Wile E., knowing about the "birds and the bees", leaves out bird seed while he prepares to release a fifth of Acme bumblebees from a distance. When Wile pulls the lid off, instead of attacking the munching Road Runner next to them, the swarm flies 400 feet in the distance towards the coyote and repeatedly stings him. 4. Wile now prepares a second bird seed trap, this time hoping to squash the bird with an anvil. Of course, when Wile walks onto the board to drop the anvil, the wood snaps under the combined weight and the anvil falls towards the Road Runner, who simply steps to the side out of danger. The board halves fall on top of the resulting crater to create a convenient bridge back to the feast. 5. Having had enough of the simple traps, Wile builds a lengthy steep ramp and lights a bomb intended for the Road Runner at the ramp's bottom, but which simply explodes instantly upon lighting  6. The coyote now prepares a giant catapult in the road; however, the boulder is too heavy for the catapult to sling at the passing Road Runner and flattens its owner. 7. Finally, Wile hopes to shoot the Road Runner with a harpoon gun. The rope, however, catches one of the coyote's feet and drags his rear over a cactus and under several rocks, then hurtles him into open space. Wile sees the fix he is in and recovers in time to grab the very end of the rope. Unfortunately, the rope continues into a very thin pipe, then out onto the road and directly into a chicken race with a truck. Wile smashes directly through the truck, and then the spear finally impales a rock face, but this leads to the coyote being swung down into the path of a train and bumped all the way up to the edge of a precipice, ragged, exhausted, gasping and sobbing. The Road Runner pulls up directly behind him, but instead of beeping, which would possibly drive his opponent insane , the Road Runner shows a soft side by holding up a sign saying: "I just don't have the heart." As he dashes back the way he came, the sign changes to "'Bye!" The End. The title is a pun on the title "Room and Board".Tim is a proofreader at a newspaper in Oslo by day, and a pyromaniac at night. Only one other knows about Tim's dark side: his childhood friend and editor of the newspaper. The two have kept the secret for years until the secretary, Margrethe, finds out. Eager to help she becomes Tim's confidant.In a send-up of the "gong show" set in an Arabian palace , the short opens with a band Timbuk Two Plus 3 playing Sweet Georgia Brown trying to entertain the sultan, with the performance ending with the floor being dropped out from under them, sending the band into a crocodile pit below. Next, a musician scared by the fate of Timbuk Two performs a send-up of Hound Dog, Hound Camel, before meeting the same fate as Timbuk Two. Following that, Bugs, intending to travel to Perth Amboy but having missed a left turn at Des Moines, ends up in front of other prospective performers and is ordered to entertain the sultan. Assigned the role of "Teller of Tales", Bugs proceeds to tell his tale of how he ended up in the palace. Flashing back to 1953's Bully for Bugs, Bugs recounts his problems with the bull he met there while trying to find the Coachella Valley, and Bugs' outsmarting the bull with a hidden anvil. The sultan is prepared to press the button to send Bugs into the pit, but then Bugs recounts his experiences with Rudolph the monster in 1952's Water, Water Every Hare, where Bugs impersonates a hairdresser to outsmart Rudolph. Bugs also recounts his encounter with Yosemite Sam in the Sahara Desert in 1955's Sahara Hare, referring to Sam as "the stupidest character of them all", while recounting Sam's unsuccessful attempts to enter a desert fort. At this point, while Bugs is chuckling at Yosemite Sam's misfortunes in Sahara Hare, the sultan, who turns out to be none other than Yosemite Sam himself, tries to press the button to drop Bugs, only to find that Bugs has shut off the master switch, frustrating Sam. When Yosemite Sam tries to find out what is wrong, Bugs resets the master switch, dropping Sam into the crocodile pit, from which he escapes, but not before one of the crocodiles also escapes, sending Sam running off. Bugs, now dressed with turbans covering each ear, describes Sam's act as a "don't call us, we'll call you" act, along with some other remarks as the camera irises out.{{plot}} Introduction: Like all Sam Sheepdog and Ralph Wolf shorts, this one revolves around Ralph Wolf trying to steal the sheep guarded by Sam Sheepdog. Unlike later episodes where Ralph will not attempt to steal any sheep until Ralph and Sam have officially started work, in this short Ralph uses the time between the shifts of the two sheepdogs to make his first move. 1. By the time Sam sits on the edge of his cliff to watch over the sheep, Ralph is already attempting to carry a sheep away. Sam casually pushes a rock over the ledge, which falls on Ralph's head. In a stupor, Ralph places the sheep on the ground and lets it go just before he falls unconscious and grows a large lump on his head. 2. Ralph next attempts to drop a large boulder on Sam, but a tree branch catches the boulder and propels it upwards again as it crushes Ralph. 3. Ralph's next attempt is to pole vault over Sam to get a sheep. Sam casually grabs the pole, lowers it over the edge until Ralph is eye level with Sam, and punches him in the face. 4. Next, Ralph attempts to sneak into the field by surrounding himself with a cloud of smoke from an Acme smoke bomb. Sam heads him off at the pass and drops a stick of dynamite in his smoke cloud. After the explosion, Ralph stumbles back in a cloud of black smoke. With his lack of vision and coordination, he accidentally falls off a cliff. 5. In Ralph's fifth attempt, he uses an Acme disguise. The box is labelled "Acme artificial rock. Have fun. Be popular. Be a rock!" Ralph attempts to sneak past Sam with the rock disguise, but Sam hits the fake rock with a sledge hammer. Ralph breaks apart into a number of pebbles which all move back into Ralph's cave. 6. Ralph's next attempt is to dive off a cliff while tied to a very large helium balloon and carrying a fishing rod to snag a sheep. As he casts his rod, he unwittingly snags his balloon with his fish hook and rips the balloon, sending him flying into the horizon. 7. Ralph then attempts to tunnel under the field. As he reaches up through the holes, he feels what appears to be four sheep legs strapped on to a large drum of TNT. Believing this to be a sheep, he pulls it into his tunnel. After the explosion, he places the riven drum back where it was sitting. Blackened and dejected, he refills his tunnel. 8. In Ralph's eighth attempt he swims through a stream with a pedal-powered submarine to catch a sheep which is taking a drink of water. As he swims, Sam holds a sign in front of his periscope which reads "DETOUR". After following the arrow on the sign, Ralph falls off a waterfall. 9. Ralph next attempts to propel Sam off his perch by placing an improvised teeter totter under Sam and dropping a rock on it from a large height. Unfortunately for Ralph, Sam is propelled straight upward toward Ralph's cliff, upon where he grabs Ralph by the neck and begins punching him in the face. Finally, the punch clock whistle blows and Ralph and Sam change shifts with their replacements Fred Wolf and George Sheepdog. Their replacements stand in the same position Sam and Ralph were standing in before the whistle blew and George begins punching Fred in the face.Sylvester the cat awakes on Christmas morning to find a present for him. To his disappointment, it is merely a rubber mouse. He hears his hated rival Tweety singing Jingle Bells in his cage, which has been gift wrapped and addressed to Granny. Just before she enters the room, he switches the cage's tag so it's addressed "To Kitty" instead. Granny innocently gives the cage to Sylvester and opens the box with the rubber mouse. Believing there has been an innocent mix-up, she goes to give Sylvester the mouse and correct the mistake. Upon seeing a satisfied Sylvester hiccup Tweety's feathers, Granny realizes what has occurred and angrily forces Sylvester to regurgitate Tweety. After giving the wayward cat a scolding, Granny insists that Sylvester kiss Tweety under a sprig of mistletoe. Sylvester eats Tweety Bird again instead, and is once again scolded and forced to spit him out. Granny places Tweety's cage up high where Sylvester shouldn't be able to reach him. Undaunted, the ever-resourceful feline retrieves a ladder, climbs up to Tweety's cage, and opens it with the intent to eat him. Tweety Bird manages to convince Sylvester that a huge present waiting under the Christmas tree is for Sylvester. Sylvester abandons Tweety in his greed, and opens the present with relish. It turns out to be Hector the Bulldog, who promptly eats Sylvester. Granny arrives and forces Hector to spit out Sylvester, and then throws the dog out of her house. Sylvester then attempts to get to Tweety by using a toy steam crane. Instead, he catches an angry Granny, who chases and bashes Sylvester with a broom. The feline retreats to the second floor of the house and attempts to saw a hole in the floor so as to be able to descend upon Tweety from above. Tweety replaces himself in the cage with a stick of lit dynamite, which goes off just as Sylvester pulls the cage up to his level. Sylvester then puts the wrecked cage back and stumbles down the stairs, blackened and torn up from the explosion. He next attempts a Western-style showdown with Tweety; himself playing the part of Geronimo, with Tweety playing Hopalong Cassidy. After being shot by a pop-gun , Sylvester wins, but before he can consume his prize, Granny shoots a plunger over his mouth, and declares, "You didn't count on Pocahontas, did you, Geronimo?" While Tweety plays on his new train set, Sylvester tries one last time to catch him. He takes some spare train tracks, sets them up to point towards his open mouth, and the puts the train in reverse. The train goes over the new tracks, and towards Sylvester who then devours Tweety, only to be devoured himself by Hector the Bulldog who has somehow gotten back in the house. Granny whacks Hector until he coughs up Sylvester, and then does the same to Sylvester until he coughs up Tweety. Granny announces she's had enough, and that she'll show Sylvester and Hector there will be peace in the house once and for all. The cartoon ends with Granny and Tweety singing a variation of the Christmas carol "Hark The Herald Angels Sing". On Tweety's right and left are Sylvester and Hector, both with "Do Not Open Til Xmas" stamps over their mouths.In this cartoon, Professor Owl teaches his class about melody and its importance to the world of music.Tom is a mascot aboard a cruise ship and is warned by the captain that Tom will be replaced if a mouse is found on board the ship. Jerry tries to board the ship but is kicked out by Tom, Jerry continues to board the ship unsuccessfully until boarding on the anchor of the ship. He then ties Tom's tail to a lifesaver ring and makes a fake call for help. Tom throws the ring and this results himself being thrown off the ship. Tom manages to get back on the ship anyhow, soaking wet and furious. Jerry slips up Tom as he passes by with a bar of soap and Tom salutes a passing captain as he is thrown off the ship. Tom emerges soaking wet once again onto the stern. Tom dives into the pool after seeing Jerry dive into it, but Jerry drains all the water out, causing Tom to crash into the floor. Then, Tom is seen standing in front of the ship's horn, and is blasted by a jet of boiling water when Jerry switches it on.  Jerry, successfully ridding Tom off the ship again, walks along the edge of the deck playing his ukulele, but Tom, now really furious, pokes his head up and Jerry flees into a theater where Texas Tom is being shown. When Jerry laughs at Tom, Tom is annoyed and throws Jerry off the ship and into the air, after reaching his highest point, Jerry realises he's going to fall. Jerry lands on the mast, falls into a vent, and drops into a food serving tray. The captain praises Tom on keeping mice off the ship until the food is served and much to Tom's horror, it turns out to be the tray that Jerry fell into. Tom is thrown into the brig and watches as Jerry surfs to the coast of Hawaii.{{cquote}} Tweety narrates his daily activities as he is spotted, then chased by Sylvester. Utilizing a Jack Webb impression, Tweety delivers his signature "I tawt I taw a puddy tat" line, then describes his adversary in detail: "A bwack cat, wed nose, white chest. Name, 'Tilvester." Tweety describes Sylvester's attempts, as follows: * The opening scene, where Sylvester simply crosses the street and walks up the stairs to the room Tweety is located in. An unseen woman tells him "SCAT!" and throws plates at him. Sylvester scurries down the stairs and out of the building. * Subsequently, Sylvester builds a makeshift bridge of wooden planks and uses a swing to get to the building across the way, where Tweety is housed. The bridge collapses as the nails come loose at the base, due to the cat's weight and its poor construction; Sylvester is flattened by a piledriver in the swing gag. * Sylvester's third attempt involves the use of a pilot's ejector chair to get at the high story window where Tweety is, but it hurls him straight through light wires, splitting the cat into several lengthwise pieces. * Tweety feeds with the pigeons at the city library. Sylvester stops by and chases his prey into an automat. Tweety takes refuge behind a window . Sylvester inserts a nickel into the slot, opens the door and gets a spring-loaded pie thrown into his face. * Following a mountain blizzard, Tweety puts spoons on his feet  to search for food. Sylvester comes after him on skis, and it appears the speedy cat will catch his dinner ... until he crashes into a tree. * Tweety hides in a treetop in a mine field. Sylvester uses a metal detector to try to avoid the mines, but Tweety throws a magnet at the cat, which draws all the mines and results in an explosion. * A chase on a high wooden bridge in Colorado, where Tweety hides beneath the deck, out of the cat's reach. A determined Sylvester saws a hole in the center of the bridge, but doesn't realize he is standing in the middle of the portion he's sawing off until well after he has begun his plummet to the river below. Unseen by his predator, Tweety steps out of his way. A British-accented man in a fishing boat spots the falling projectile headed straight for him and takes note of the situation, using Tweety's cacthphrase: "I tawt I taw a puddy tat!" Sylvester plunges straight through the boat's hull, causing the cat, the man and his boat to sink .The short opens on a small, white-shirted, worried group of mice wearing sombreros thinking of how to get cheese from the AJAX cheese factory across the Mexican-American border that is guarded by Sylvester the Cat. Sylvester has eaten other mice who have tried. The leader comes up with a brilliant idea: retain the services of the aptly named "Speedy Gonzales". The group agrees, so the leader goes to the carnival where Speedy resides. Speedy Gonzales is at the carnival attraction "Shoot Speedy" in which people try to shoot Speedy with bullets from a gun in order to "win a beeg prize." The leader tells Speedy, in Spanish, about the dire situation the mice are in, not having access to the cheese guarded by Sylvester. Speedy agrees. Speedy runs through the wire field between the mice and Sylvester shaking his legs as he yells "¡Ándale! ¡Ándale! ¡Arriba! ¡Arriba!," and runs past Sylvester, gets into the cheese factory and brings back a round of cheese. Sylvester then throws a baseball at the AJAX cheese factory, but it turns out Speedy is inside the baseball, and therefore able to get even more cheese from Sylvester to the mice. Sylvester then tries using landmines and mousetraps, to no avail. Finally, Sylvester gets fed up with Speedy's agility and evasive maneuvers and gets all the cheese from the factory and stacks them up . Sylvester uses a bomb to blow up all the cheese but the cheese boxes only explode, and much of the cheese lands where the mice are, causing Sylvester to cry and bang his head on an electric pole in annoyance. Speedy then says "I like this pussycat fellow; he's silly!" and the short ends.The basic plot of 14 Carrot Rabbit takes place during the gold rush in America, and centers on Yosemite Sam  whose attempts are to steal other people's gold. The story begins with an old man named Louie slouching over by a river to clean the gold he found in a pan. Sam suddenly appears, uses his gun and reputation to scare him away, and claims the gold. When he sees how little he has stolen from old Louie, he says "Picking's mighty slim around here, hardly no reward for a day's work," even though he did not work for it. Sam later takes the gold to a shop called "Next to Last Chance Saloon" to trade them for money. After the weigh-up, Sam is furious to find out that Pierre can offer only $10 for the gold. While Sam complains about the result, Bugs Bunny wobbles into the shop with a gigantic piece of gold to trade for a couple roots of carrots. When Bugs leaves, Sam asks Pierre the origin of Bugs' finding, and he tells him that Bugs finds gold because he gets a funny feeling when he's near gold. With this information, Sam goes to find Bugs. He sees Bugs get the funny feeling, and Bugs digs up the ground, only to find it is a lost collar button. Sam then decides to ask Bugs to be his partner; if Bugs can locate the gold, Sam will dig it up and split it with the rabbit in a 50/50 deal. Bugs stares back at the camera and wiggles his eyebrows with a smirk, knowing that Sam cannot be trusted and he will have to play some tricks on him. Choosing to play along, he asks if he really can afford to take Sam up on his offer, and Sam pretends he never had been "Chilkoot Sam" and styles himself "Square-deal Sam" instead. They stroll along together when Bugs indicates he's found gold. Bugs points out the spot and Sam starts digging for gold and rejects the partnership with Bugs. Bugs, realizing he's been double-crossed, spots a cliff and when he tries to tell Sam where he's digging, Sam just orders him to shut up and digs right through, to land in a lake below. Soon afterwards, Bugs goes downhill, and when Sam shows up, Bugs starts digging, making Sam think Bugs is trying to get the gold for himself, so he grabs the tools and starts to dig deeper and deeper, but it turns out he is in a dump truck full of rock and soil. The truck driver is Bugs, who drives the truck to a cliff and empties the truck over the edge. But Sam keeps digging and finds himself on the bottom of the soil pile and imagines that he has dug through the globe and falls into hard ground. An angry Sam vows to chase Bugs through every state in the Union. When he finally caught up with Bugs, he has another "funny" moment. Sam tries to resist the gold-digging infatuation but, ends up caving in and starts to dig. This time Bugs was right and he finds tons of gold, but finds out that he is digging at the United States Gold Reserve in Fort Knox, Kentucky. He ends up getting taken away by US MP soldiers and charged with a felony. Another MP finds Bugs and asks him what he is doing there; Bugs nervously replies, "Who, me? I’m waiting for a street car." At that moment, inexplicably, an ocean liner appears on the scene , which Bugs uses to make his getaway.At the airport, a business man notices a red cat seemingly waiting for something or someone. When he asks the steward, he tells the story of a flying cat. As a kitten, he was adopted by a mother eagle. He quickly learned to fly and had to say goodbye to his mother like all eagles. One day, he noticed a bulldog chasing a female cat. He saved her from the dog, using his ability to fly. The cats fall in love with each other. Every winter, the flying cat flies south. At the end, he returns to his girlfriend, along with their flying kittens .The cartoon starts when Bugs Bunny, feeling the effects of mixing radish juice with carrot juice the night before, unknowingly climbs out of his hole and into a rocket ship that is about to be launched into space. He realizes what has happened once he screws open the tip of the ship, and is immediately hit by the satellite Sputnik and lands on what appears to be a space station. While there, Bugs meets Marvin the Martian who is trying to blow up earth with the Illudium PU-36 Explosive Space Modulator  because "it obstructs my view of Venus". Bugs steals Marvin's explosive and Marvin uses different tricks to try to catch Bugs and get the explosive back, including using ‘just add water’ Instant Martians to chase Bugs around the space station and catch him. In true Bugs fashion, he tricks the Instant Martians into flying off the road and falling through a trap door. Bugs then steals one of the Martian's spaceships, and while flying by, swaps the explosive he stole from Marvin for the bottle of Instant Martians. The explosive is lit, and soon explodes in Marvin’s hand  before Marvin can finish saying its name. Marvin concedes that it is "back to the old drawing board" while Bugs is flying back to Earth. When Bugs arrives at Earth he has to crash land and finds himself and the bottle of Martians falling into the sewer. The Martians begin to grow as Bugs climbs out of the sewer, frantically replaces the manhole cover and warns the audience to "Run for the hills folks, or you'll be up to your armpits in Martians!" He then takes his own advice as the ground shakes with the invaders underneath.{{Plot}} Tom is relaxing and listening to the radio. Then he hears a crash from the kitchen. Jerry is stealing food from the fridge to his mousehole. Tom tries to stop Jerry and when he does Jerry squeezes a tomato in his face. Jerry then runs toward his mousehole but Tom stops him by closing a door. Tom forgets that there is a mousehole door for Jerry and he runs through it. Tom looks into the mouse hole and Jerry squeezes another tomato in Tom's face. Tom then returns to his chair and his radio. Then a news bulletin comes on announcing that a ferocious lion has just escaped from the circus and warning everyone to bar their windows and doors. Tom then frantically closes all the windows, puts a couch in front of the door, grabs a gun and a safari hat from above the fireplace and he defends himself. Jerry then comes out of hiding in a teapot and he screams when he sees a pair of eyes hiding in the shadows. He tries to run away but the runaway lion pounces and grabs him. He tells Jerry not to give him away explaining that he hates the circus and asks Jerry to help him get home. Then the lion declares he's hungry while pointing at his open mouth. Jerry and the lion then sneak over the kitchen. Jerry sneaks a large ham for the lion and Tom spots him. Tom stops Jerry with his gun and takes the ham away from him. Tom then catches Jerry by his tail and Tom holds the ham behind him. The lion, who is hiding behind a curtain, eats the ham in one bite. Tom then goes to take a bite into the ham but sees there's nothing there. Then he hears crunching noises from behind the curtain. Tom then gets scared and points the gun at the curtain. Jerry then raises the gun and it goes off, detonating the ceiling. Jerry then starts acting if he had been shot and he hits the ground. Tom is horrified, believing he accidentally shot Jerry and runs off. Jerry and the lion run away in the other direction. Tom returns with a first aid kit but Jerry is nowhere to be found. Tom then looks for the lion, but finds Jerry in another room and the lion is perched on top of the lamp. Tom points the gun in Jerry's face and Jerry starts to throw punches. Tom grabs Jerry and sticks out his chin as if to say, "Go ahead. Hit me with your best shot". Jerry looks up at the lion, who smacks Tom in the chin with his paw, sending him flying halfway across the room. Tom crashes into the chimney and has bricks land on his head. Jerry and the lion then run and hide into an umbrella holder. Tom grabs the umbrella, opens it, and the lion falls on top of Tom. They run off and they both hide in a closet. Tom then closes the door on the closet, gives an evil laugh, and locks the door from the outside. Then a lot of fighting sounds are heard and Tom is flattened against the door and sent across the room again. Jerry then comes out and gives Tom a mean look. Intimidated, Tom crashes through the wall, and runs away. Jerry and the lion  then shake hands. Jerry is then in assistance with the lion stowaway on to the S.S. Africa. The boat before long blows it's horn and casts off on to Africa with the lion bidding Jerry goodbye with a tear falling from his eye. The S.S. Africa sails further away to the ocean to expedition to Africa, leaving Jerry waving goodbye with a handkerchief, alongside with an instrumental theme of Auld Lang Syne, with him tear-shedding with sniffles for a brief moment to see the lion he befriended take his departure, but also with an elated receptivity that he helped.Joe cannot stop thinking of his late sister, Bertie. Moe and Larry humour him by making him think that Bertie will meet them the following day downtown, in some form. When the boys trek downtown, they meet up with a horse that turns out to be Bertie reincarnated, much to Moe and Larry's surprise. The boys are ecstatic, and try to persuade their horsie sister to return home with them. At first, she resists, but eventually gives in. No sooner do the boys get Bertie home that they discover she is pregnant. Joe goes berserk and demands Moe and Larry prepare for the arrival of the newborn. In the interim, Bertie's heavy hoofs can be clearly heard by the landlord Mr. Dinklespiel  and his daughter  living downstairs. Dinklespiel marches upstairs and demands that the Stooges come clean, but Moe tries to convince him that the sounds are nothing more than the trio. Once Dinklespiel leaves, Bertie gives birth to a baby colt. Joe is so taken by the moment, he happily declares "I'm an uncle, I'm an uncle!" Within seconds, Joe is awoken by Moe and Larry, who hear his cries of being an uncle. It turns out that the whole thing was a dream, and sister Bertie (Moe in Drag is alive and well and living with the Stooges. When Joe tells Bertie he had a dream that she was a horse, she takes offense, and promptly places a casserole on Joe's bald dome.As Woody pecks for crumbs in the park, an activity he thinks is "for the birds," he sees the newspaper classified ads and decides to go after the easiest job he can find: selling insurance door to door. He is assigned to cover the city's low-rent district, where he runs afoul of Dapper Denver Dooley, who insists that he does not need a policy. Only after several of the accidents covered by it  happen to Dooley does he agree to sign up; however, he throws Woody out of the house without paying. Woody advises Dooley to read the policy's fine print, which says that he is not covered if hit by a guided missile, and proceeds to launch one after setting it to "Deadbeat." The missile chases Dooley all over the city, its clockwork ticking loudly enough to announce its arrival, and eventually blows him up. In the hospital, he calls for his breakfast and a nurse puts some bread into the toaster for him; thinking that its ticking noise is another missile, he dives out the window. On the way down, he signs up for a new policy offered by Woody, but bursts into tears after reading the fine print and learning that he is not covered for what he has just done.A witch riding around on a broomstick crashes into a factory chimney and breaks her broom. Fortunately, the factory happens to be a broom factory, so she takes it in to get a new handle. Woody is working the night shift, and kindly makes a new handle for the broom. However, he insists that the witch pay him 50 cents for the broom, and will not allow her to have it until she does so. This prompts the witch to invent numerous schemes to get the broom back, all of which fail . Eventually, she relents and pays Woody a fake 50-cent coin. Woody lets her into the broom vault, and she discovers it is stacked with brooms, none of which respond to the words "And away we go!" . Woody, laughing, mimics her words, unknowingly holding onto the enchanted broom, which launches him out the open window.A tree surgeon halts his car in front of a hollow tree in the forest and hangs up a sign saying, "Doctor Is In." He commences to operate. The tree, however, is Woody Woodpecker's home, and he's rudely awakened by the noisy surgeon's drill. Determined to protect his home, Woody jams a cake pan over the drill, which the surgeon tugs at furiously, to no avail. But when Woody removes the pan, the doctor stumbles backward onto a tree stump and into the jaws of an irate squirrel. The doctor proceeds to treat the tree with repeated intervention from Woody, who proceeds to have his revenge in classic cartoon style. Woody kicks the doctor into a bird's nest after ruining a root-reflex test. Woody blows up his stethoscope tube with a bellows. Woody accuses the doctor of being a "peeping Tom" after the doctor's tree-photograph proves to be one of glamour gal Marilyn Monroe . When the doctor takes a pot shot at Woody, he hits a passing duck instead, and Woody drives up in a sheriff's car to bonk him for hunting out of season. Woody also treats the tree surgeon to a falling anvil and egg in the face . After an unsuccessful attempt to lasso Woody, the doctor tries to saw the tree down, only to saw his own ladder in half, from which he crashes to the ground. Woody reverses his sign to read, "Doctor Is Out," and he goes back to sleep.Miss Prissy goes off to a  hen party, leaving her son Egghead, Jr. behind. Passing by "loafer" Foghorn, Foghorn takes it upon himself to play games with Egghead, Jr. instead of having to read "How to Isolate the Isotope". Although Egghead Jr. "shakes his head when he means yes, and nods when he means no," Foghorn tries playing games with him. Foghorn first tries to explain how to play croquet, but Egghead, Jr. manages to knock the ball through all the wickets . Foghorn then tries playing cops and robbers, but Egghead Jr. blows a whistle, and Foghorn is arrested offscreen. Using his diagram, he marks an X where Foghorn digs out, complete with prison outfit and ball and chain  Next they try playing Indians and Daniel Boone, but Foghorn gets a face full of buckshot when he pulls the cork out of Egghead Jr.'s gun. Foghorn then plays pirates with Egghead, Jr., but when he tries adjusting the 'cannon' , the cannonball winds up bouncing into Foghorn's mouth, knocking him into the lake. Finally, Foghorn goes swimming, and tells Egghead Jr. that he's a "battleship", encouraging him to swim in and "sink me". Egghead Jr. instead winds up a series of mini battleships that shoot at Foghorn, sinking him. When Egghead Jr. pulls Foghorn out of the lake, Miss Prissy comes and berates Foghorn - "Mark my words, one of these days, some of your childish pranks are going to backfire on you." Foghorn gets up, says: "Ma'am, I say ma'am, you are so right!", showing that water is now pouring through the holes he has in his body sustained by Egghead's battleships.In 1860s post-Civil War Texas, Jim Coates  leaves home to work on a cattle drive, leaving behind his wife Katie , older son Travis  and younger son Arliss . The family is so poor the children have never seen a dollar bill, other than worthless Confederate dollars. While Jim is away, Travis sets off to work in the cornfield, where he encounters "Old Yeller", a Black Mouth Cur. Travis unsuccessfully tries to drive Old Yeller away, but Arliss likes the dog and defends him. However, Old Yeller's habit of stealing meat from smokehouses and robbing hens' nests does not endear him to Travis. Later, Arliss tries to capture a bear cub by feeding it cornbread and grabbing it. The angry mother bear hears her cub wailing and attacks, but Old Yeller appears and drives off the bear, earning the affection of the family. Travis eventually accepts the dog and a profound bond grows between the two. Old Yeller's owner, Burn Sanderson , shows up looking for his dog, but comes to realize that the family needs the dog more than he does, and agrees to trade the dog to Arliss in exchange for a horny toad and a home-cooked meal. One day, Travis sets out to trap wild boars. On the advice of Bud Searcy , he sits in a tree, trying to rope them from above as Yeller keeps them from escaping. Travis falls into the pack of boars below, one of which injures him. Yeller attacks the boar and rescues Travis, who escapes with a badly-hurt leg. Yeller is seriously wounded as well. Searcy warns the Coates family of hydrophobia  in the area. Fortunately, the boars did not have hydrophobia, and both boy and dog fully recover. However, the family soon realize that their cow, Old Rose, has not been allowing her calf to feed, and may have rabies. Watching her stumble about, Travis confirms it and shoots her. While Katie and Lizbeth  burn the body that night, a rabid wolf attacks. Yeller defends the family, but is bitten in the struggle before Travis can shoot and kill the wolf. The family pens Yeller in a corn crib for several weeks to watch him. Soon when Travis goes to feed Old Yeller, Yeller growls and snarls at Travis. After Yeller nearly attacks Arliss, who, not understanding the danger, had attempted to open the cage, a grieving Travis is forced to shoot Yeller. In doing so, he takes his first step towards adulthood. Heartbroken from the death of his beloved dog, Travis refuses the offer of a new puppy sired by Yeller. Jim comes home with a bagful of money and presents for the family. Having learned about Yeller's fate from Katie, he explains to his son the facts about life and death. When they get back to the farm, the young puppy steals a piece of meat, a trick he learned from his father. Travis adopts the puppy, naming him "Young Yeller" in honor of his sire.Pierre Bear runs a bowling ball factory in the great North. Pierre mistakenly chops down Woody's treehouse and converts into a bowling ball. Despite this, Woody decides to still reside in it, and goes about trying to outwit the bear. Pierre uses a water hose, air pump, deep freeze and even hocus-pocus to evict the tree's tenant, but all he gets are knotted bowler's fingers.The story opens with several hens mothering their chicks in an ideal suburban fashion: taking them on walks and bragging to fellow hens about their exploits. One of the hens jokingly tells Miss Prissy that she is lucky not to have chicks to looks after, then Prissy overhears a group of hens saying that she will "never land a man" because she is "too much of a D-R-I-P." This depresses Prissy who then climbs up on to the roof of the barn. Meanwhile, Foghorn is seen preparing to attack the dog by with a board from a picket fence when he sees Prissy jump from the top of the barn. Foghorn dives to save Prissy, and Prissy sees Foghorn as not only a savior but a potential husband, a notion which Foghorn rejects. Foghorn then goes about his regular routine by picking up the board and going to the doghouse, where he lifts the dog up by the tail and repeatedly slaps his rear end with a board which causes the dog to chase him. Foghorn then closes the gate to the fence just in time for the dog to crash into it head first. Foghorn is then seen trying to slip a lit dynamite stick into the dog house, but the dog is wise to it and the trick backfires. Foghorn is then seen having a picnic with a large amount of food prepared by Prissy, but Foghorn rejects her again. The dog sees Prissy's attempts to court Foghorn and tells him that she is going about it the wrong way and offers to help out, seeing it as a way to rid himself of Foghorn for good. The dog then disguises himself as a rival rooster who wants to marry Prissy in order to make Foghorn jealous. The ruse works and Foghorn fights with the dog, and ends up in church exclaiming, "I won, I won", as he and Prissy are married. When Foghorn realizes what happened, he says to the audience, "Hey, there must have been some way I could have lost." He slaps himself to end the cartoon.Introduction: The Road Runner burns some rubber on the road, while Wile E. Coyote jumps out in front of the speeding bird with a knife and fork. Just before the utensils are about to hit, the ludicrous Latin names are shown: Road Runner: Acceleratti Incredibilis and Coyote: Carnivorous Vulgaris. The cartoon restarts in slo-mo, and the coyote stabs through his legs, ends up missing the Road Runner by a hair, and twists himself into a snail. With an enraged expression, he unravels himself and bounds after the bird. As the coyote gains on him, the Road Runner gears into superspeed and leaves all the roads in a cloud of dust. Wile slows down and hangs his face downwards, and plots his next scheme. 1. As the Road Runner speeds at 130&nbsp;mph acrossing the mountain roads, the coyote fires a bow loaded with some dynamite attached to an arrow. However, it's just like that - he fires the bow, and the dynamite explodes on himself. 2. The fuming coyote loads himself onto a slingshot; however, the support breaks out of the ground and wedges him into a stack of hay. 3. Wile E. Coyote now tries covering the ground with quick-drying cement to stop the Road Runner dead. Unfortunately, the Road Runner cuts directly through it without being touched, and the Coyote is drenched and soon frozen before he can escape. 4. Hoping to avoid being hit with loose ends, Wile hides himself under a manhole with an armed hand grenade, but the Road Runner passes through the road fast enough to drop a boulder on top of the cover, which prevents the coyote from throwing the grenade out at the bird before it explodes. Dazed, Wile peeks out to inspect the cause, and the manhole cover, and then the boulder, land on his head. 5. Soon afterwards, Wile E. Coyote dresses as an attractive, blond hitch hiker holding a sign that says "Old Virginia or Bust" in an attempt to lure the Road Runner, but the clever bird speeds right past him and uncovers the Coyote. The Road Runner returns with Wile E's wig, holding up a sign saying "I'VE ALREADY GOT A DATE". 6. Using deception, the coyote paints a realistic picture of a bridge and places it at the end of a road where there is no bridge, just the end of the road, as displayed by a sign that the coyote turns around to make the facade convincing. Maybe a bit too convincing, though: the Road Runner runs through the trick picture as if it was a real road. As the coyote looks on, puzzled, he fails to see a truck emerging through the road in the painting, which promptly runs him over. Frustrated, the coyote tears through the painting and then falls to the ground, leaving dust in the air in the word "OH NO!". 7. Looking to smash the Road Runner, Wile heaves a large boulder onto the winding mountain roads which the Road Runner is traveling. Eventually, the Road Runner and the boulder approach the same area, but the Road Runner slips just out of the way, while the boulder is pitched into the air, up a serac, and onto a new set of roads. The coyote is out peeking at the roads, hoping to see the Road Runner crushed, but instead he is about to suffer the same fate. The boulder is approaching from behind, and Wile sees it coming but cannot escape fast enough. 8. The coyote, hoping for technology to triumph, uses various ACME devices put together  to create a makeshift air balloon. Floating in the clouds, he sees the Road Runner and releases the anvil, causing the balloon to rise in the air until it stops. At this point, the string keeping it blown up unfurls, sending it flying through the air until it runs out of air. Then, he falls to and into the earth, followed by the anvil falling on his head and the Road Runner passing over him just to embarrass him even further. 9. Finally, at the end of the cartoon, the coyote, listening out for the Road Runner's beeping, drops from a high log and lunges towards the bird with a javelin, only to realise that the beeping came from a nearby truck, which the Coyote dives straight into, and is thus whacked into the air and wound around the log. The camera cuts to the truck to show that the Road Runner is driving. The End. The title is a pun on "Going! Going! Gone!"{{Plot}} Tom is chasing Jerry around Mammy Two Shoes, while she is yelling out confusing instructions on where to chase Jerry. She has a broom ready to hit Jerry but instead she clumsily hits Tom on the head causing Tom to forget who he is and he believes he is a mouse. Mammy asks Tom if he is okay but he starts to squeak she becomes scared and jumps onto a kitchen chair. Tom terrorises Mammy by shaking the chair causing her to fall off it, then quickly flees from the deranged cat. Tom then heads over to the refrigerator and grabs a piece of cheese, before entering Jerry's mouse hole. Tom then moves into Jerry's small bed causing it to break underneath him. Jerry gets annoyed having to share with an oversized 'mouse'. Jerry then overhears Mammy on the phone talking to the doctor about Tom. He hears that Tom is suffering from amnesia. Seeing Tom approaching her with mischief on his mind, Mammy cuts her phone conversation short and attempts to evade him by walking away on stilts. Tom pulls the stilts from under her causing Mammy to fall and he runs back into the mouse hole.  Jerry then runs to get the medical encyclopedia to learn more about amnesia. He reads that "memory can be restored by a sharp blow on the head". Jerry whistles and gets Tom's attention with a piece of cheese. Jerry then hides behind a curtain with a baseball bat. Tom starts searching for Jerry and every time Jerry swings to hit Tom, Tom coincidentally moves out of the way, exhausting Jerry. Jerry then tries dropping a bowling ball onto a piece of wood where a piece of cheese is sitting. Tom comes out of the mouse hole and eats the cheese. Jerry drops the ball, launching Tom headfirst into the ceiling. This cures him of his amnesia, but when Tom lands back onto the wood, the bowling ball flies into the air and falls on his head, sending him back to his mouse-like state. Jerry then puts down a trail of cheese for Tom and he tries to drop a vase on his head. He misses. Jerry sets down another trail of cheese that leads under the piano. Jerry has tied a string to the piano leg and when Tom walks under the piano, Jerry pulls the leg out of the piano causing it to fall. Again, Jerry's attempts miss. Tom continues the trail through a door and an iron barely misses him as well. Tom reaches a big piece of cheese and Jerry cuts a rope tied to an anvil. But the anvil cuts off the back of his skin and crashes through the floor, again missing him. Jerry sits down disgusted, he's tried everything.  Tom then gives Jerry a piece of cheese, but Jerry doesn't want it and throws it away. It lands in an egg cup on the shelf, which rolls and knocks a dish, which rolls into a laundry basket and into the broom. The broom falls over and releases a door which holds the ironing board which hits Tom on the head curing him of his amnesia. Jerry lets out a happy scream and runs to his mouse hole. He kisses Tom and then lies down on his bed to relax. Tom also lies down right outside Jerry's mouse hole. Jerry looks outside and sees Mammy  reading the medical book and holding a baseball bat whilst creeping stealthily towards the sleeping cat. She says she is going to cure Tom of his amnesia with a blow to the head. Jerry motions to stop her but she hits Tom anyway, unknowingly bringing his amnesia back. Jerry returns to his mouse hole whilst Tom, after once again dealing with Mammy, re-enters the mouse-hole,and returns to his mouse-like state. Tom kicks Jerry out of his bed, lies on the bed and breaks it once again, leaving Jerry frustrated.{{Plot}} Jim Hawkins, a young boy living with his mother in England in their inn, the 'Admiral Benbow', is looking after the inn, when a strange man comes and orders a glass of rum from him, at the same time asking Jim if he has seen a "Captain William Bones". Jim answers that he has never seen a Billy Bones, and gets Black Dog another glass of rum. However, Black Dog looks into the back of the inn and sees an old sea chest with the initials "W.B." inscribed on the side, and takes off. Once he is gone, Bones enters asking Jim if it was "a one legged man". Jim tells Bones of the man who came in and Bones recognizes him as Black Dog, and tells Jim to give him rum, though he is instructed not to for his health sake. Jim runs out of the inn, but runs straight into Blind Pew and is caught. Pew presents Bones with the infamous black spot, and leaves. Bones reveals he has until dark to live, but he is too ill to walk even a few steps, so knowing he is going to die, he gives Jim a roll of paper and tells him to go get help from the town. The pirates come to the inn and begin to ransack it in search of whatever it is they are after. A carriage comes down the road and they flee, chased by some men on horseback, while the carriage stops at the inn with Squire Trelawney, Doctor Livesey, and Jim. They find Bones, and Livesey declares him dead, but from shock, not murder. Jim reveals that Bones gave him something that he said the pirates were after. It is the map of Captain John Flint's treasure . Trelawney, overly excited, makes plans then and there for a voyage, with Livesey as ship's doctor and Jim as cabin boy. Ten days pass. Jim arrives and Doctor Livesey rendezvous with Squire in Bristol Dock. After showing them their ship, the Hispaniola, Trewlaney states that he is troubled by the fact that their captain is having trouble selecting a crew. He then introduces them to a man whom he hired as ship's cook, named Long John Silver. The three sit down at Silver's tavern to have a meal, and they see Silver has only one leg. Jim is at first frightened by this,  but Silver seems kind and civil, stating that he was once in the navy, and volunteers to bring some of his former shipmates aboard the voyage, since they "know the sea". Silver introduces Jim to his pet parrot, Captain Flint, who is an avid swearer and "Lives up to her name". Jim then hears a voice behind him ordering a glass of rum, and he turns around to see Black Dog. The buccaneer flees before he can be caught. Silver then gives Jim a small pistol, just his size. Silver, Jim and Silver's former crew mates board the Hispaniola to prepare for the voyage. Captain Smollett then speaks privately with Livesey and Trelawney, stating how displeased he is with the fact that this whole voyage is a treasure hunt. Trelawney swears that he never breathed a word about the treasure, but Livesey asks the captain if he is worried about a mutiny, to which he doubts. He then toasts the voyage with the two, and when he leaves, Trelawney dubs his conduct, "Downright un-English!". Once the voyage is well underway, one of the crew, George Merry, is found to carrying a concealed weapon. Jim feels guilty about hiding the small pistol that Silver gave him, but Silver says that as long as he doesn't do any harm with it, that he is responsible enough to keep it on his person. Silver then goes over to George and reminds George that Mr. Arrow is a friend and that he will take care of him. That night, there is a storm, in which Silver invites Mr. Arrow in to eat plum duff, a cake made with rum. Once Silver leaves the room, Arrow, being an avid drinker, drinks down the entire bottle that Silver left behind, while Silver secretly watches. Soon afterward, Mr. Arrow emerges from the galley, clearly drunk, and the next morning, a funeral is held for Mr. Arrow, who had been washed overboard. Time passes, and Jim is seen talking to Hunter at the helm about when they will sight land. Hunter mentions that when the last apple has been eaten, that they will sight land. Jim excitedly states that he plans to eat up all the apples, and runs below deck to do so. Once he arrives below deck, he climbs inside to grab one, and at that moment, he overhears the crew talking about their plans to mutiny, and learns that Silver is the ringleader. Silver convinces the men to wait until they have the treasure on board the ship to strike, and begins to reach into the barrel Jim is hiding in, but Jim is saved by the cry "Land Ho!" from above deck, and the mutineers run up to see for themselves. Jim then leaves the barrel and runs to the cabin to warn the captain, squire and doctor. They arrange for Jim to be their spy. The next day, Silver tells Jim about all the excitement he will have exploring the island, though he can tell that Jim is withdrawing from him slightly.Silver offers to guide the ship into anchorage, and Jim asks if he can go with Silver. Smollett allows him, knowing the boy might learn something of the pirate's plan. While the boat is in the water, George Merry, impatient and wanting to take charge himself, tells the other mutineers to attack, but they are cornered and sent below deck. Silver gives orders for the men in the two boats with him to run for it, and uses Jim as a hostage to keep Smollett and the others from firing, telling them to give up the map in exchange for Jim's life. Upon reaching the shore, Jim jumps from the boat and runs off into the jungle. After evading pursuit from three of the mutineers, Jim encounters and befriends Ben Gunn, one of Flint's crew who was marooned on the island five years ago. Jim tells him about the mutiny, and then Ben takes Jim to a fort, where he finds the captain and his friends, who abandoned the ship and came ashore in order to rescue Jim. Silver and his men go back aboard ship to get the muskets from the cabin, and find the rest of their men drinking the rum stores. Silver plans to punish George, but Israel says that George would be better in helping them take the stockade, and Silver allows George's rash actions to slide. Silver appears outside the stockade with a flag of truce. Silver gives him terms, stating that he will let them all live in exchange for the map. Smollett does not accept, and Silver leaves, stating, "Them that die will be the lucky ones!" Most of the pirates fall and are badly injured in the fight, but Silver shots Smollet, wounding him badly before he too, makes a retreat. That night, Livesey gives Jim the map, telling him that if they are captured, to use the map to buy his life with. Smollett then reveals that the pirates may not attack again because of the possibility of them bringing the ship close into shore at flood tide the next morning, allowing them to put the fort within range and kill them all. Jim sneaks out with a knife and uses Ben Gunn's boat to make his way out to the ship. Once there, he cuts the anchor rope and climbs aboard. He sees a fight between Israel Hands and another mutineer over rum, and sees Israel stab his companion in the back. Israel then attempts to fire the cannon, but he is heavily drunk and tired from the fight, so Jim easily knocks him away from the cannon, but Israel chases him into the rigging. Jim pulls out the pistol Silver gave him, and Israel throws a knife at Jim and it sticks in his arm, but Jim fires the pistol reflexively and shoots Israel in the face. Jim then lowers the Jolly Roger flag, and raises the English Union Jack. He then makes his way ashore and back to the stockade, his knife wound slowly and painfully becoming infected due to the swampy region he makes his way through. Finally, he arrives back at the stockade and attempts to wake Livesey to tend to his wound, but it turns out to Long John Silver that he has awoken. Jim faints due to both fright and exhaustion. Silver is clearly worried, and while searching for more wounds on the boy, discovers the map, and hides it on his person as his comrades awaken. Though the mutineers  want to let Jim die, Silver states they can use Jim to bargain with Livesey and the others for the map. The crew is displeased with this decision, and step outside to vote on what should be done. Silver then hails Livesey by calling out from the top of the fort, and sees that the ship has been taken. Livesey responds and Silver's crew reveal that they are giving him the black spot. When Silver reads it, he notices that it has been cut from a Bible and berates them for doing something so foolish, then states that the rest of this business will be decided once he finishes the business with the map. Silver takes Jim out to Livesey, who tends to his wound. Silver tells him that he saved Jim's life and that he saw the ship and knows he's beat, though Livesey did not know the ship had been taken until Silver told him, and realizes what Jim has done for them. Silver reveals that he found the map on Jim's person, telling Jim that he cares about him enough to save his life even though he already had it. Silver makes a deal with Livesey for freedom if he guards Jim while he and his men search for the treasure. Silver walks back to his men and shows them the map, who are elated with the results of the negotiation, but Silver resigns as captain. The men insist he keeps his position, and he gives them back the black spot to put back into the Bible they took it from. The pirates then go hunting for the treasure, and on the way, discover a skeleton of one of their former mates on Flint's ship. After using the bones, which were laid out by compass as a pointer, they make their way to the treasure, where they find it has already been dug up and taken. The pirates are angered that the treasure is gone, and Silver tells Jim to "Standby for trouble." George Merry accuses Silver of making a deal with Doctor Livesey, and attempts to shoot him, but Silver fires first and kills George. Silver shoots down the pirates one by one, until Livesey and Trelawney arrive with the others and ambush them, shooting them all down. Jim is reunited with his friends, and Ben Gunn gives back Silver's crutch, which he had thrown at one of the pirates. Ben reveals that he found Flint's gold a long time ago and hid it in his cave, where he takes Jim and Silver to see for themselves. Smollett, almost completely recovered from his wound, and despite Jim's defense of Silver, orders Silver to be taken aboard the ship and put in irons. Once on the beach with some loaded treasure and new supplies, Jim, Trelawney and two men are ready to take Silver aboard the ship, where suddenly, Silver snatches the small pistol from Jim's belt and orders Trelawney and the two men to swim for it or he will shoot. He forces Jim to stay in the boat to man his rudder while he rows, but Jim beaches him on a small sandbar and gets out. Silver raises a pistol, but Jim says he won't take orders from Silver, who takes aim, but Silver drops the pistol. Silver attempts to push himself off the bank and Jim rushes over to help push out the boat. Silver thanks him and rows away to freedom just as Livesey and the others arrive to try to catch him. Silver turns back to shout back to Jim, bidding him goodbye and wishing him good luck. Livesey curses Silver, and at the same time, wishes him the best of luck, while Jim, who realizes that Silver was his friend all along, raises his hand and waves goodbye to him. The film then closes with Long John Silver sailing off into the horizon.At a hospital, Butch the bulldog paces nervously, waiting for his baby to be born. He does, and Butch faints. Back at home, Butch teaches his new son how to walk, act tough, and bite cats . One day, the young bulldog is playing with a ball when he wanders upon Sylvester. His training kicks in and he attacks Sylvester, who proceeds to place the small bulldog under a tin can. However, Butch catches Sylvester doing this and exacts revenge by taking Sylvester to a shed and hammering the tin can on his head. Later, Sylvester is walking along while the baby bulldog is biting at his tail. He slaps the bulldog off camera, only for Butch to catch up to him and wallop Sylvester in retaliation. After that, Sylvester reluctantly plays fetch with the baby bulldog and decides to throw the stick into a busy street, hoping the bulldog will be flattened. However, the young bulldog retrieves it successfully. Annoyed, Sylvester prepares to throw it again but Butch sees this and throws the stick into traffic himself, pointing for Sylvester to fetch the stick this time. Sylvester successfully retrieves it amidst heavy traffic, but is run over by a man on a scooter on the sidewalk anyway. Once again, Sylvester plays fetch with the young bulldog again and throws a ball into a doghouse, which Sylvester boards up when the bulldog chases the ball into it. Sylvester plans to drop a lit stick of dynamite into the open hole on the top. However, Butch once again catches Sylvester and places Sylvester over the doghouse instead; Sylvester doesn't hammer out the nails in the boards in time and explodes. In the final set piece of the cartoon, Sylvester sets up a booby trap of a dog bone hooked up to a shotgun. When Butch's son begins tugging on the bone, Butch gives Sylvester a stern look, prompting Sylvester to run over and plug the shotgun hole with his finger so the young bulldog is unharmed, getting his finger shot over and over  as Butch's son tugs. The stork arrives and announces Butch has even more puppies to add to his family. The cartoon ends as Sylvester chases the stork, shooting at him.Introduction: Wile E. Coyote, apparently famished, wads up a bunch of mud to make a lookalike chicken. He roasts it in an adobe oven, then sits down to "eat" it, with less than perfect results . So he makes a second fixture - a trash can - and throws the "chicken" in it, proving he is indeed Famishius Fantasticus. The Road Runner  bowls everything over, starting the chase. Wile E. takes a straight-line shortcut instead of the road to catch up. Before Wile E. can come close, however, the Road Runner sets the road on fire with his blinding speed, causing Wile E. to burn his feet. He stomps out the fire on his paws, but finds his tail is also burning. Wile E., thinking fast, witches for water to cool his tail off. The Coyote rages at the camera, but nothing can be done except plan the next scheme. 1. Wile E. uses his frequent idea: swing from a high place armed with a javelin, looking to spear the Road Runner. This time, he simply plows into the ground as the Road Runner calmly passes on the right. 2. The Coyote stuffs a gun on a spring into a ground compartment and locks it with a safety lock, hoping to shoot his enemy, but due to the excessive spring force, the gun does a 180 and ends up on the opposite side of the Coyote, upside down, but pointed in his face. Wile E. can only plug the barrel with a finger before getting blasted in the face. Then, the gun returns to the hole in the ground, pulling its owner with it. 3. Wile E. attaches himself to a tree catapult to throw himself towards a passing Road Runner, but instead he bounces himself on the ground and suffers repeating back and forth faceplants as the tree continually stretches to either side. 4. To block the Road Runner, the Coyote attaches a bunch of maces to a string and pole, and unwinds the string when he hears the bird approaching. It's an effective obstacle, and would have stopped the Road Runner except that the pole lifts itself out of the ground and drops on the hiding Coyote before the Road Runner passes. Wile E. is battered and tied up by the end of the fracas. 5. This time, the Coyote uses deception. He posts a detour and bridges a crevasse with a ladder that he has sabotaged with a cut in the structure, which will make it collapse if passed over. He hears the Road Runner, but doesn't see him, and he looks up to see the Road Runner safely perched on top of a high cliff, watching his every move. The angry Coyote uses his own broken ladder to climb up to the top, with predictably disastrous results. Wile E. falls into the canyon, grabs onto the second section of the ladder to alleviate the fall, and he continues into the ground and through each rung on the way down. 6. Now, Wile E. loads a circle of explosives into the center of a tire, and rolls the tire down a hill to meet the Road Runner. Unfortunately, the explosives stay behind and blow up their user. 7. The Coyote is loaded into a massive missile to chase the Road Runner, but when he sets it off, instead of launching the missile, he only launches himself out of it and through a rock face. He emerges from the resulting hole, blackened. 8. The final gag in this cartoon involves a pack of rocks from on high, ready to fall on the Road Runner when the trap door opens. But when Wile E. opens the trap door, no rocks fall because they're too densely packed. So, the Coyote first runs to the top and stomps on them , then procures a long, thin stick and uses it like an ice pick to force them out while standing under them. Pebbles, then stones, then rocks fall. Wile E. finally comes to his senses and raises a sign: "IN HEAVEN'S NAME - WHAT AM I DOING?" Too late; Wile E. raises an umbrella to prepare for the resulting impact of huge rocks, and after the impact, a long lump forms on the Coyote's head with a white flag making the lump look like a flagpole. The flag reads "THE END" while it waves in the wind, accompanied by the song: "Taps". The End.The cartoon opens by showing an open highway where a car is pulling a small trailer which is carrying "Kid Banty", the World's Champion Fighting Rooster and Pinfeatherweight Champ. The vehicle hits a bump on the highway and Kid Banty is ejected in a crate from the trailer and lands on the highway. Banty, who is wearing boxing gloves, thinks he is down for the count in a boxing ring and tries to regain his composure. He then walks toward a field and passes a cow with a cowbell around its neck. When the cow lifts its head, the bell rings and Banty becomes transfixed into thinking he is in a boxing match and proceeds to punch the cow as if it was an opposing fighter. Foghorn is lounging about the barnyard while his nemesis the dog is securing a large pipe to a makeshift elevated platform constructed out of wood. Foghorn is curious as to what the dog is up to, while the dog affixes a sign below the pipe that reads "SEE A GENUINE FLYING SAUCER." Foghorn thinks it is a fake but looks anyway and complains that he cannot see anything except for "a lot of air with a hole around it". Meanwhile the dog has climbed up a tree with a large elastic rubber band and instructs Foghorn to keep looking and releases the rubber band, firing a saucer through the pipe, which breaks on Foghorn's head. Next a small tea cup flies through the pipe and also hits Foghorn, with the cup handle getting stuck around his beak. The dog appears and asks Foghorn if he wants "one or two lumps"  and a dazed Foghorn says "two", and the dogs produces a large mallet and whacks Foghorn on the head. Later in the barnyard Foghorn is repairing and alarm clock when Banty walks by. The clock bell rings and Banty punches Leghorn, who is knocked silly. When Foghorn regains his senses, he asks Banty why he threw the punch, and Banty says that every time he hears a bell, he starts punching. Foghorn ponders this  and then concocts a plot to exact revenge on the dog. Foghorn decides to send Banty to the dog's house to ask for a punching bag. Banty seems temporarily confused  but obeys Foghorn and asks the dog for a punching bag. Foghorn then rings a triangular chime which causes Banty to punch the dog. When the dog confronts him, Banty says that Foghorn sent him over. The dog then figures to get even with Foghorn by giving Banty a gift-wrapped box and telling him that the punching bag is inside. Foghorn warns Banty that the box may be a trap but opens the box anyway, revealing a coo-coo clock. The clock chimes and Banty punches Leghorn again. Foghorn changes tactics and tries to bribe the dog to be Banty's sparring partner, but it is really a ruse to torment the dog again. The dog then tells Banty that he cannot spar with him but promises to find him another partner. The dog sets up one last scheme by luring Leghorn to a tree trunk  that supposedly has a show with dancing girls inside. Foghorn falls for the scheme and sticks his head in the trunk but nothing is there except a small hole above him. Foghorn muses that the hole is some kind of "peep show" and sticks his head inside, but the dog has set up a miniature boxing ring on top of the tree trunk where Banty is ready to spar, and thanks to the dog's scheme Banty has the perfect-sized partner—Foghorn's head.Dapper Dan Dooley, a bandit with a price on his head, approaches the town of Rigor Mortis, Texas and sees a sign, "No Bandits Allowed," signed by "Woody Woodpecker, Marshal." He stops and asks a peon where he can find the marshal. The peon replies, "You mean the one with the red hair, the big nose, who goes 'Ha-Ha-Ha-Ha-Ha'?" The bandit says, "That's him." The peon replies, "I don't know." A disgusted patron runs to the marshal's office for help, and soon, outside the swinging doors, appear two long legs in cowboy boots. The bandit sees this, turns chicken, and finds that the legs he saw are actually those of Woody on stilts. In the final sequence, with Dapper Dan and the peon on a handcar running head-on into an engine, the peon jumps unharmed, but the bandit is really shaken up. Tapping the peon on the head, he asks, "What happened to that woodpecker?" The peon takes off his hat, false face and short, and it's Woody Woodpecker who now has the bandit securely tied up so that he can cause no more harm or trouble.The cartoon begins with Tom stranded at sea, floating on a wooden raft after presumably being shipwrecked, a la Robinson Crusoe. The poor cat has nothing to eat but shoes and shoelaces.This scene is reminiscent of Charlie Chaplin's classic The Gold Rush. When he spots an island, the waves catapult him there. Tom attempts to feast on the coconuts but they prove to be difficult to break open. Moments later, Tom breaks his teeth after trying to sink them into a turtle. However, Tom does see a creature that is undeniably more edible - Jerry. Tom chases after the rodent and the pair end up in an uninhabited village. Jerry spots a large drum and beats a tune on it, frightening Tom. Jerry also finds a large black cauldron and rubs the soot onto his face and body, making himself black. When Tom emerges from his hiding place, Jerry jumps out at him, hollering in a thick dialect. He orders Tom to "hop in pot"; to cook himself with vegetables; but to "hold the onion." Tom starts to feel the heat, and resigned to his death, he looks out of the cauldron and sees Jerry performing his "native" dance, but the movement of the dance causes Jerry's makeshift skirt to fall down, revealing his brown mouse fur. Tom realises he's been had and makes sure that Jerry is aware of it. Jerry tries to order Tom back into the pot, but the cat simply mocks him and chases him, only to stumble upon some genuine cannibals . One licks his lips and fancies barbecued cat. They chase after Tom. Meanwhile, Jerry, overlooking the whole fracas is attacked by a younger  cannibal who also licks his lips in delight, and fancies barbecued mouse and chases after Jerry.The picture tells the story of Bud Fontaine Jr. ([[Billy Gray  who takes an instant dislike of Matlock, a strange new neighbor in town . After his new-found dog is turns up dead by poison, Bud blames the stranger and sets off a campaign to smear his name and spreads vicious rumors about him. His parents  can't seem to handle the boy. After Bud endangers the crops in the valley by his vandalism of the neighbor's oil tank, and is told the dog got killed by eating poisoned meat meant for coyotes, Bud comes to realize that people are not always what they appear to be.This is another classic battle between Bugs Bunny and Yosemite Sam . Bugs pops up out from underground, thinking he has reached Miami Beach, when in reality he is in the Sahara Desert, presumably from not making "that left toin at Albukoike". He comes prepared with a beach chair, sunscreen, sunglasses and even a bucket of carrots. Bugs thinks he has found a nice park when he stumbles upon a water hole and a palm tree. Meanwhile, Sam, riding on a camel, suddenly comes upon Bugs’ tracks and exclaims: "Great horny toads! A trespasser, gettin' footy-prints all over my desert!" The battle begins after Bugs asks Sam if he “is with the sideshow around here” and then proceeds to rip a piece of Sam’s turban off to dry himself.  He chases after Bugs, who goes into a French Foreign Legion post. Sam tries many tricks to get Bugs, including the use of stilts, human sling-shots and even an elephant. After driving Sam to near insanity, Bugs decides to pull one last trick. He builds a series of doors leading into the post but keeps nailing on new doors so Sam opens door after door until he reaches the TNT and gasoline waiting for him at the end. Bugs goes back to relax in the Sahara sand.  At the very end, Daffy Duck makes a cameo appearance as he too thinks he is in Miami Beach after tunneling underground—complete with beach chair, sunscreen, and sunglasses. Bugs tries to tell Daffy it's not Miami Beach—but Daffy doesn't listen. "Eh, let him find out for himself," Bugs shrugs to the audience as the gag begins all over again.{{Plot}} Tom is chasing Jerry in circles around the house. Tom then receives a letter from his cousin George who says in the letter that he is scared of mice and is coming to visit. Tom boards up the mousehole to stop Jerry escaping. He opens the door as his cousin George  arrives perched on a chair. George enters the house, clinging on to Tom for comfort to not find a mouse. Tom sets George down on a nearby armchair and plays a cruel prank on him, winding up a clockwork mouse, which predictably frightens George, making him retreat through the chair he is on and crash into the wall behind him. Jerry meanwhile, escapes from his hole and Jerry waltzes over to a plate of candy by the chair. George sits down and starts eating some. Jerry grabs onto one, but George has grabs the same one and is about to eat it when he sees Jerry and shoots up onto the ceiling in panic, making the ceiling plaster break and George falls before he sees he is about to land on the mouse and runs for it. Jerry runs after him to see what is going on and notices that the cat is afraid of him. Jerry, thinking that the frightened cat is Tom, has a ball in using this to his advantage by scaring George up the wall and then manages to scare him into melting goo that seeps through the floor grate. Jerry then juggles and eats several pieces of the candy. Tom shows up to find out what is going on and sees Jerry. Jerry attempts to scare him . Tom makes no reaction and instead hits Jerry, who vibrates back into his hole, and Tom pushes a TV in front of it to keep the mouse confined, and sets off looking for George, unaware of his hiding place. George then emerges from the floor grate. Jerry manages to squeeze past the TV and hides under it as George walks over to turn it on. Jerry appears on the TV screen and George hides, then changes the channel, but whatever channel he sets the TV to, Jerry pokes his head out; then Jerry runs back and forth, and he appears big with a scary face. George screams before he hides under a windowsill. Jerry comes out of the TV, pulls the windowsill down, and scares the cat, who flees around the corner. Jerry pursues him and runs into Tom, who was standing and watching. He tries to scare him and gets bopped on the head again. George approaches Tom telling him about the mouse. Tom has a plan to confuse Jerry. George reluctantly goes along with it. George lets himself be scared by Jerry and gets him to follow the paranoid cat into a closet. Jerry repeatedly opens the door and scares George until Tom substitutes himself with his cousin for the third scare and whacks Jerry with a dustpan. Jerry spots Tom, who pretends to be scared like George and crouches in fright, around the corner. Jerry gets ready to kick him, but George sticks his head around the opposite corner and advises him not to try that. Jerry again investigates. Tom pokes his head around the corner. Jerry tries to scare him, but he gets scared back. Jerry hides and the two cats tiptoe under a purple rug, appearing to be one long eight-legged cat. Both Jerry and George set out and George gets scared again. Jerry sees George hide behind a curtain, but he doesn't spot Tom there too. As George quickly overcomes his fear, Jerry pulls the curtain out and sees Tom. Jerry tries to scare him shouting "Aboo!". And each time he says it, out pops George's arms, then legs and finally, his head. Now both cats appear as a four-legged, four-armed, two-headed cat monster, laughing eerily, which frightens Jerry out of the house as Tom and George chase him. Jerry runs straight into a nearby home where its sign is titled: "Home For Mice With Nervous Breakdowns" and immediately enters.The short opens with Sylvester once again attempting to catch Tweety, this time succeeding and closing the blinds to hide the evidence. Before he can eat Tweety, however, he is interrupted by a crimson, erudite, milquetoast cat , who tells him that his constant cravings for Tweety are a sign of profound personal weakness, and that the only way for him to overcome this weakness is to kick the habit for good. Believing that he is in need of help, Sylvester proudly joins "Birds Anonymous", a group of cats who have banded together to overcome their addictions to birds. Sylvester lives by this motto: "Birds is strictly for the birds!" However, Sylvester's resolve begins to break down after a short time, primarily due to constant temptation since he still lives in the same house as Tweety. The temptations begins to grow even more after he hears TV commercials featuring a stuffed turkey and bird-themed songs on the radio. Sylvester valiantly makes many attempts to control his baser urges, even physically chaining himself to a radiator at one point. After Tweety asks the cat: "Don't you wike me anymore?" Sylvester replies: "I think... I think... I think you're... I think you're... DELICIOUS!" and makes another grab for Tweety, only to be stopped by his cat friend again. Sylvester is unable to sleep that night, and eventually gives in to his basic instincts to try to grab Tweety, but is stopped again when his cat friend pours alum in his mouth. Sylvester then attempts to literally drink Tweety through a straw but fails. Ashamed of his weakness, Sylvester collapses into sobs , but the cat friend consoles him, telling him severe withdrawal symptoms are all part of the process, and that if he stays with the "Birds Anonymous" program, he will eventually succeed and come to love birds, as he does. However, when the cat kisses Tweety to prove his point, years of his denial take their toll and the B.A. cat attempts to devour Tweety himself, this time with Sylvester restraining him and telling him to control himself. Tweety, escaping to a nearby counter, watches and sums up the whole affair with a shrug: "Like I said before: Once a bad ol' puddy tat, always a bad ol' puddy tat!"The Gophers  are playing a gin game in their hole in the ground outside a house, where Tosh loses his fifth game in a row, when Geo P. Dog  digs a hole and dumps a bone on the Gophers and then dirt as he fills the bone in. Geo does remove the bone upon Tosh's request, but realizing that it was gophers who asked him to move the bone, he returns to the same hole to dig the bone. This time, Mac goes up, only to be grabbed by Geo. Mac then yells for help, which arrives in the form of Tosh and a hammer, which Tosh uses to knock Geo's head into his collar, allowing the Gophers to return to their hole and escape the dog, but not before the Gophers have an argument over who should enter the hole first. As Geo then reaches into the hole to try to find the Gophers, the Gophers attach a fake hand to one end of a gray garden hose and a noose around the other end to fasten to the dog's actual hand. The hose is then brought out of another hole and extended out to the street, where it is quickly run over by a truck, leading the dog to believe he has been hurt until he finds Tosh behind him. After blocking two attempts by Tosh to get back into his hole, the dog challenges Tosh to come up with a trick, which he does: a card with firecracker that explodes, allowing Tosh to escape. Furious, Geo then gets a can of TNT and pours it down the Gophers' hole. Mac then emerges from the other one and asks to borrow a match, to which Geo obliges, only to see the match used to light the pouring TNT and ignite it. Finally, Geo chases the Gophers underground, and is tricked into believing they went into an open gas main. Soon after Geo enters the main, the Gophers close it making it pitch black. As the dog attempts to light a match, the gas main explodes, and the dog pops out of the oven in the house and eventually departs the premises . The Gophers then resume their gin game.Bugs Bunny—contentedly singing "Home on the Range," adding in that rabbits also live on the prairie—is startled after Yosemite Sam builds a cabin above his rabbit hole. Bugs tries to find out what's going on, interrupting Sam's banjo rendition of "I Can't Get Along, Little Dogie" ; Sam attributes this disturbance to mice. Bugs saws a hole and climbs out through a bearskin rug. Its mouth closes as Bugs is halfway out, causing the bunny to panic; Sam sees this and shoots the rug repeatedly . The two then begin quarreling over who has rights to the property; Bugs claims he was there first and should live there undisturbed , while Sam isn't interested in listening to a rabbit's opinion  Bugs decides this may be a civil matter and decides to go to "the highest court in the country"—which they do: It's literally the "highest court" in the land, the courthouse being atop a mountain [elevation: {{Convert}}]. There, the judge declares that both Bugs and Sam shall share the land equally ... "and in the event that one of you should pass on, the other shall inherit the entire property." Sam chuckles evily, making Bugs uneasy. The rest of the cartoon sees Sam trying to kill Bugs, but all of his schemes go awry: * That night, the two bunk in the same bedroom, their beds on opposite sides of a window. After Sam turns out the light , Sam tries to sneak over to Bugs' bed to klonk him on the head. Bugs turns on the light in time, causing Sam to make the hasty excuse, "Carpet keeps rolling up!" . After turning off the light again , Sam makes a second attempt, and indeed someone does suffer a concussion—Sam, as Bugs has hit his antagonist on the head . * At breakfast, Sam tries to slip some sort of potion into Bugs' carrot juice . However, Bugs is wise and trades the drug-laced drink with Sam's cup. When Sam refuses, Bugs plays a game of roulette . Sam loses his patience and orders Bugs to drink at gunpoint. Bugs does, but only after Sam drinks his. Nothing happens to Bugs, making Sam realize that he has consumed the potion-tainted drink—moments before he blasts off into the sky. Sam runs back and immediately chases Bugs back into his hole. He then realizes the only way to kill off the rabbit is to pack his hole with explosives. However, Bugs diverts the dynamite under the house foundation. Sam then lights the fuse, but realizes too late that his house is about to be blown up. In the end, the cabin flies away, much like how the cabin did in the tornado in the 1939 film adaptation of The Wizard of Oz. A dazed Sam, upon realizing his fate, remarks: "I've got a cabin in the sky!" , as his house floats upward.The film follows Theodore Honey , a highly eccentric "boffin" with the Royal Aircraft Establishment. A widower with a precocious young daughter, Elspeth , Honey is sent from Farnborough to investigate the crash of a "Reindeer" airliner in Labrador, which he theorizes occurred because of a structural failure in the tail caused by sudden metal fatigue. To test his theory in his laboratory, an airframe is continuously shaken in eight-hour daily cycles. It isn't until Honey is aboard a Reindeer that he realizes he himself is flying on one such aircraft and that it may be close to the number of hours his theory projects for the fatal failure. Despite the fact that his theory is not yet proven, Honey decides to warn the passengers and crew, including actress Monica Teasdale . After the Reindeer lands at Gander Airport an inspection clears it to continue on. He takes drastic action to stop the flight by raising the undercarriage while the aircraft is still on the ground, lowering the aircraft to its belly and damaging it. Shocked by the act, some people demand that he be declared insane to discredit his theory. Teasdale and flight attendant Marjorie Corder  both take a liking for Honey and Elspeth, who is lonely and isolated from her schoolmates. Teasdale speaks on his behalf to his superiors, while Corder, seeing that he is decent but disorganized, decides to marry him. During a hearing in which his sanity is questioned, Honey resigns but continues trying to prove that his mathematics are sound. In the laboratory, the time he predicted for failure passes without failure. The Reindeer he disabled is repaired, but after landing from a test flight the tail falls off. Shortly afterward, the same thing happens to the test frame in the lab, and Honey discovers that he failed to include temperature as a factor in his calculations.The Stooges' sister Bertie is a reincarnated horse who is trying to track down her mate, Schnapps. While having lunch, a newscast comes over the radio stating that a local famous circus horse  is about to be destroyed, due to an injury. Bertie and the Stooges run to the circus in an effort to save the horse from a certain fate.Pirate Yosemite Sam spots another ship and demands its surrender. All of the crewmen abandon ship after they exclaim in horror of "Pirate Sam", leaving only Bugs Bunny, a stowaway in a box full of carrots, who finds "Pirate Sam" does not sound very intimidating. Bugs then looks at the other ship. Sam said to surrender. Bugs refuses to give up  and a battle ensues . Eventually, Sam gives one more warning when Bugs throws a lit match into the powder room. Sam rushes to get it and puts it out. He mentioned that if Bugs throws another match in to the room he is not going after it. To which Bugs throws another lit match down there. Sam stood there not going down just as he promised, but he decide to do it, much too late. Then the whole ship blows up and Sam lands on Bugs' ship. With his ship destroyed, Sam grabs the matchbox and does the same thing that Bugs did to him. Sam demand he go and get the match but Bugs refuse to get it. Panicking, Sam swims back to shore. But he didn't realize that it was the women's powder room. And to which Bugs said "talcum powder doesn't blow up". Which then there was an explosion and we see Bugs flying up with the pieces of the ship saying "Well I could be wrong you know", as the cartoon closes.Hearing the news that Robin Hood has been captured, and is sure to hang, Jerry and Tuffy decide to go and free Robin, who is in imprisoned in a castle with Tom as guard. They break into the prison and find the cell where "poor old Robin is locked up tight, 'e is", but first they have to get past Tom. They find the "blooming' key" and grab it off Tom, but Tom locks Jerry and Tuffy in the cellar and swallows the key. Jerry and Tuffy escape the cellar, and Tuffy is able to get the key for Robin Hood's cell by abseiling from a piece of string, into Tom's mouth, whilst Tom is asleep. However, the string breaks, and Tom swallows Tuffy, waking him up in the process. Hiccuping, Tom drinks down a great deal of red wine, and then he goes back to sleep. Tuffy emerges from Tom's mouth, clearly drunk. He almost escapes, but the prongs of the key get caught on Tom's mouth and he wakes up again. Tom closes his mouth, trapping Tuffy. "Blimey! 'E locked me in, 'e did!". Tuffy breaks through Tom's teeth, using the key as a battering-ram. Jerry helps Tuffy escape Tom, and together they give the key to Robin Hood. However, Tom raises the alarm. A silhouette of Robin Hood is seen diving into the moat around the castle and he escapes, with arrows flying all around him. Jerry and Tuffy celebrate Robin's freedom, but Tuffy's diaper gets caught on a flying arrow and he is sent into a nearby tree. A still-inebriated Tuffy is carousing, whilst being carried on the arrow-shaft by Jerry.Foghorn reads a newspaper story in the Barnyard News predicting a cold winter. To avoid freezing in his shack, he decides to woo Miss Prissy , who lives in a warm, cozy cottage across the way. Miss Prissy is flattered by Foghorn's two-second courtship, but tells him that, in order to prove his worthiness as her mate, he needs to show that he can be a worthy father to her bookish-looking son. The little boy - Egghead Jr., a chick similar in appearance to Tweety, dressed in a stocking cap and oversized glasses - would rather read about "Splitting the Fourth Dimension" than engage in typical little boy games. Foghorn immediately catches on to this and sets out to win his audition by showing Egghead Jr. how to play various sports games. Although he apparently has never participated in any of the below-listed events before, Egghead Jr. effortly masters them all, as depicted in the cartoon's gags: * Baseball. After Egghead Jr. swallows the ball whole and clonks Foghorn over the head with the bat causing Foghorn to yell "NO! NO Boy! you suppose to hit the ball with it! The ball!", the rooster has Egghead Jr. properly use both items. Egghead goes to bat and smashes a line drive down Foghorn's throat, and later fires a fast-pitch offering that slices through Foghorn's bat and a row of trees in the grove. When asked to explain, Egghead produces a series of scientific formulas. * Making paper airplanes. Foghorn makes a conventional one, but Egghead Jr. creates a fighter that not only floats sleekly through the air, it shoots Foggy's plane down in flames. Foghorn is handed another scientific explanation. * Hide and seek. Foghorn hides in the feedbox, but using a slide rule and a shovel, Egghead Jr. finds the rooster elsewhere. Flabbergasted at how the chick accomplished this, Foghorn decides not to look in the feedbox, declaring "I just might be in there." Later, Foghorn tries to take an interest in Egghead Jr.'s interests. The chick is experimenting with formulas in his Tiny Tot Chemical Set . Foghorn assumes Egghead Jr. is making soda and tries to make it fizz - but causes an explosion instead. Foghorn returns Egghead Jr. home and cancels the engagement. "I've got my bandages to keep me warm!" he scowls as he walks off on crutches and in a full-body bandage.The opening shows Foghorn Leghorn lounging in the barnyard, being fanned and serenaded by several hens, when a telegram arrives saying that his old college roommate, Rhode Island Red, will be paying him a visit. Red is voiced by Daws Butler, and is a takeoff on Jackie Gleason's "Loudmouth" character, Charlie Bratten . Foghorn decides that he had enough of "that loudmouth" Red in college, and puts up several signs and barbed wire outside the barnyard fence to discourage Red from visiting. Meanwhile, Foghorn does not realize that the delivery man that brought the telegram is actually Red in disguise, so Red sees everything that Foghorn is trying to do to prevent his visit. Foghorn sees Red, who extends his arm for a handshake. Foghorn shakes hands and receives an electrical shock from an unseen joke buzzer in Red's hand. Red then pulls another joke by squirting Foghorn with a fake carnation on his lapel. Red sees the hens and tries to impress them by singing and playing a rendition of Freddy the Freshman. Foghorn tries to get back at Red by rigging a camera with a boxing glove in it and asking the self-absorbed Red if he wants to have his picture taken. Red obliges, but Foghorn cannot get the glove to fire from the camera. Red then reverses positions with Foghorn and gets him to squeeze the shutter mechanism on the camera, which causes Foghorn to get punched by the glove. Foghorn then falls backwards into a hole that he dug and is hit on the head by a boulder, traps that were intended for Red. Foghorn breaks the fourth wall by looking at the viewer and saying: "I thought I had a sitting duck, turns out he had a pigeon." Red then asks if Foghorn is going to take his picture and this time Foghorn gets behind the camera and points a double-barreled shotgun at Red, who puts his fingers into each barrel, causing the shotgun to backfire on Foghorn.  Red is then seen walking with the hens outside of the barnyard and asks them if they want to see the "star halfback at Chicken Tech" in action. He asks Foghorn to replicate an old football play, the "23 Skidoo", which is a long pass. Unable to find a football, Red gets a casaba melon and hikes it to Foghorn, then goes out for a pass. While Red is waiting for the pass, Foghorn cuts an opening into the melon, lights a stick of dynamite, and stuffs it in the melon before throwing it to Red. In the distance Red is seen catching the melon but quickly yells "punt formation" and kicks it back to Foghorn, who catches the melon right before it explodes. Foghorn then tries to get back at Red by challenging him to a game of golf, and sneakily replaces the golf balls with fake ones that are supposed to explode on impact. Foghorn gives Red a ball then runs into the distance with a flag stick. Instead the ball exploding on impact, Red hits it right to Foghorn and the ball explodes when it lands. Feeling cheated that he has been victimized again, Foghorn runs back and takes one of the balls and tries to tee off. This time, the ball explodes on impact as it was supposed to before. Foghorn then finally figures out how to get rid of Red. He disguises himself  and delivers a fake telegram to Red saying that he must leave immediately to claim a large inheritance. Red is anxious to leave but Foghorn stalls him, saying that Red can't leave without a gift. Foghorn then gives Red an "electric" bowling ball with a clock attached to it . The ball is really a time bomb, but Red does not realize it because he is in such a hurry. Red leaves and Foghorn detonates the bomb, finally getting his revenge on Red, who returns and says to Foghorn, "With friends like you, I don't need any enemies."Jerry receives a telegram from his Uncle Pecos, and soon Uncle Pecos arrives. The mustached mouse  gives Jerry a performance on his guitar, playing his new song, "Crambone" , but his guitar string breaks. Uncle Pecos asks Jerry if he has a guitar string, but Jerry shakes his head negatively. Pecos pokes his head out to search for one and spots a sleeping Tom, and he walks up and plucks a whisker off the cat's head, startling him awake and out of sleep. A shocked Jerry then comes to the rescue just in the nick of time, and quickly carries his reckless uncle away from Tom to his mousehole, all the while Pecos plays on his guitar with Tom in hot-pursuit. Jerry escapes into his mousehole, but accidentally bangs his uncle's head on the wall just above the mousehole while doing so. Jerry quickly drags Uncle Pecos inside before Tom can get him. Uncle Pecos then thanks the cat for his "service" and Tom is confused. Tom then heads for the bathroom to look in the mirror when Pecos again strolls up to the cat and plucks a second whisker after the first one snaps. Pecos plays more of his song until the whisker breaks. Tom, not wanting to be a whiskerless cat, flees in panic. However though Pecos soon finds him, and Pecos tries to reason with the cat, but Tom is intransigent in protecting his whiskers and tries to keep Jerry's uncle at bay. Pecos grabs a third whisker despite tom's best efforts of self-defence, but it snaps after only a few notes. Tom frantically looks for somewhere to hide as Pecos searches for him, and Pecos soon swipes a fourth whisker. Tom dashes in panic into a nearby closet and slams the door shut. Pecos then invites Jerry out to listen to his encore. Tom then steps outside of the closet and enjoys the music Pecos generates until the snap of a string is heard. Tom shrieks and retreats back inside the closet again, but Pecos attacks the door with an axe, before Tom finally surrenders with a white flag and then plucks his fifth whisker for Pecos as a sacrifice to keep him away. Fortunately, Pecos has to leave for his television performance, which Tom and Jerry watch in their living room the following night, but when playing on air, Pecos' guitar 'string' soon snaps once again, and a laughing Tom ends up aghast when Pecos comically reaches out of the television set, and pulls out Tom's last whisker as Pecos comes to the finale of his performance.Reprising a salesman role that Daffy previously played in Daffy Dilly , The Stupor Salesman  and Fool Coverage , Design for Leaving opens with Daffy as a fast-talking door-to-door salesman from the Acme Future-Antic Push-Button Home of Tomorrow Household Appliance Company, Inc. Daffy visits Elmer Fudd at his house and says that Acme has authorized him to install, at no cost, a complete line of ultra-modern automatic household appliances . Elmer tries to speak but is repeatedly interrupted by Daffy, who grabs Elmer by the arm and escorts him to a bus to take him to the office. Despite Elmer's protests , Daffy puts him on the bus, which unknown to Elmer has a sign on the back that reads "Duluth Express Non-Stop". Later that day, Elmer returns to his house . Daffy greets Elmer at the front door and welcomes him to his new future-antic push button home. Elmer sees that his house is different and asks Daffy what he's done, but Daffy quickly pushes a button and a machine removes Elmer's hat and coat. Daffy then guides Elmer to a massaging chair. Elmer likes it at first, but Daffy pushes a button and Elmer receives an aggressive massage, which dazes him. The chair then automatically puts a cigar in Elmer's mouth and lights it, but the smoke activates a robot fire extinguisher from another room which douses Elmer with a bucket of water. Daffy states "It's, uh, very sensitive to heat. Probably needs adjusting", then guides Elmer into the kitchen. Daffy encourages Elmer to bask in the kitchen's "treasure trove of work-saving appliances" and demonstrates a new knife sharpener which ends up destroying the blade on one of Elmer's knives. Undaunted, Daffy points out the garbage disposal, which is revealed to be a pig which is housed under the kitchen sink . Daffy then shows Elmer the "main control panel" which operates all of the new appliances. Daffy suggests what Elmer would do if the walls were dirty. Elmer simply says that he would scrub them, though Daffy pushes a button marked "Wall Cleaner" and a robotic device emerges to clean the walls but it removes Elmer's wallpaper instead . Daffy tries to adjust the device but he adjusts it the wrong way and it starts removing the plaster . Daffy quickly deactivates it, then asks Elmer if he is tired of looking at his dirty windows, and when Elmer says "Well, I...", Daffy summons a machine which covers Elmer's window with bricks, and says that he'll "never have to looks at those dirty windows again". Elmer becomes angry, telling Daffy that "he's so angwy, he's burning up!" which again activates the fire extinguisher and Elmer is doused with another bucket of water . Daffy tries to continue the demonstration, but Elmer objects, saying that something bad happens to him whenever Daffy pushes a button. So Daffy agrees to let Elmer push a button. Elmer spots one, saying in his distinct voice, "I think I'll push this wed one." Daffy stops Elmer, shouting, "No, no, no, no, no! Not the WED one! Don't EVER push the WED one!" Elmer pushes another button that reads "Burglar Alarm"  and a mechanical dog comes out of the wall and bites him. Daffy then takes Elmer into a bedroom and shows him a device which will automatically tie a neck tie . Daffy tries to demonstrate it but the machine puts Elmer in a noose . Daffy shuts off the machine and casually refers to the noose as the "Alcatraz Ascot" as if it were a type of neck tie . Elmer is exhausted, telling Daffy that he wants all of the "push-button nonsense" removed and tries to go upstairs and take an aspirin, but cannot do so because his stairway has been removed. Daffy confidently boasts that there is no need to walk up stairs in a push-button home, and uses an elevator-like device to bring the "upstairs  downstairs". Elmer seems impressed but asks what happens to the downstairs, and Daffy  raises the upstairs which shows that everything downstairs has been destroyed. Elmer asks if there is "any more cwever gadgets to demonstwate, Mr. Smarty Salesman?", and when Daffy says no, Elmer makes a phone call but the conversation is inaudible. When Elmer hangs up there is a knock on his front door and a large crate is brought inside. Elmer opens the crate and starts the motor, telling Daffy about his new "future-antic push-button salesman ejector" which grabs Daffy by the shoulders and wheels him out of the house, kicking him repeatedly . With Daffy gone, Elmer remembers the red button and wonders "what that wed button is for?" He pushes it and a display reads "IN CASE OF TIDAL WAVE". A hydraulic lift raises his house high into the air. Elmer looks out of the front door and Daffy flies by in a helicopter and delivers the final punch line, "For a small price, I can install this little blue button to get you down!".Donald and his nephews visit a carnival. While they play games, Donald is tricked by a shifty barker into fighting "Pee Wee Pete" , a truculent bruiser who significantly outweighs Donald. In spite of help from Huey, Dewey and Louie, the situation looks desperate for Donald Duck, until his fist accidentally connects with Pete's jaw, which crumbles. It turns out Pegleg Pete literally had a glass jaw. Donald wins the prize money and exits the carnival triumphantly with his nephews.The Stooges run a tailor shop that is about to be repossessed by the Skin and Flint Finance Corporation. When the boys hear about a big reward for fugitive bank robber Terry "Slippery Fingers" Hargan , they think that catching him might end their financial woes. Hargan conveniently ducks into their shop and leaves a suit jacket with a safe combination in its pocket. After quietly sneaking back into the shop while the Stooges are elsewhere searching for clues, Hargan snatches a handful of suit jackets in hopes of retrieving the combination. He then later returns with his henchmen, and a wild mêlée follows. The Stooges end up getting the reward to pay off their debts and, with a stroke of luck, wind up with the crook's bankroll as well.Granny has taken Tweety to the beach for the day. Granny tells Tweety she can't wait to try on her new "bikini bathing suit" and promises to return right away. Meanwhile, Sylvester is fishing on the pier and, after pointing a gun at a worm, is immediately swallowed by a huge fish. After expressing his disgust about his lack of success, the cat spots Tweety in his cage, sitting on a rock across the pier and unguarded. Sylvester thinks he's in for a free meal ... until the tide comes in and washes Sylvester away. The high waters surround Tweety's cage, leaving the bird to yell for help. Sylvester then devises a variety of tricks to stay dry and ferry himself across the flooded beach to get at his meal: * Lowering himself toward the bird's cage by tying his fishing line around his chest; however, the line comes out of the reel, sending the cat into the river. * Driving a motorboat to the perch, but failing to notice the boat is still tied to the dock. * Powering himself with an outboard motor and a pair of waterskis. However, he crashes into the rock. * Inflating a pair of balloons to use as water wings; he is immediately surrounded by five hungry sharks, who bite at the cat. Sylvester gets away, de-furred to the point where it appears he's wearing a Tarzan-like loincloth. After doing Tarzan's trademark chest-beating and howl, he collapses on the sandbar. Eventually, Granny  sees the flooded beach and Sylvster attempting to get at Tweety. Unaware of Sylvester's true motives, Granny believes the cat is attempting to rescue the bird and—in a change of her usual attitude toward him—offers to help Sylvester. At one point, both are washed away when the tide comes in again; this happens after Sylvester gets knocked silly after hitting his head against the dock, and Granny tries to help him come to by splashing water on him . Later, Granny gives Sylvester a diving suit and keeps watch over the air pressure. Just then, a frustrated Tweety realizes that the only way he'll be rescued is if he rows his cage ashore himself ... which he does successfully. Granny sees Tweety come ashore and joyously runs to reunite with her beloved canary. She then forgets about the "heroic pussycat," who in Granny's diverted attention has allowed the air pressure machine to shut off, leaving Sylvester without any oxygen. Granny overcompensates by hastily pumping the machine, dangerously over-inflating the suit. Sylvester manages to free himself, just as Granny is talking with Tweety about her appreciation of the cat's rescue efforts; she tells the bird, "He certainly deserves a just reward!" Which Sylvester does, but a very nasty one: a safe landing in the city dog pound!In a parody of classic Faust story, Sach sells his soul to the Devil in order to get tips on a horse race.Charles M. Wolf is in his cave watching a baseball game on TV. Suddenly his wife burst in and demands he hunt a rabbit. Charles goes right away, rifle in hand muttering he hates his wife, getting a skillet tossed at his head. Bugs Bunny catches Charles running and while running alongside, he asks him what the rush is. When asked if he's hunting for something, Charlie forgets what it is and Bugs openly guesses a rabbit. Charles shoots at Bugs, but Bugs dodges the shots and in a minute or two causes him to whack himself with his gun. Bugs tests the gun for any faults, but as he shoots Charles in the face, he concludes Charles is just a bad shot. Charles starts chasing Bugs around a tree and Bugs does another round of questions as Charles has forgotten its a rabbit he's after. As Charles recalls, Bugs trips him over. Bugs dives into his hole and leaves out a box. Charles finds inside it a hand grenade. Charlie reads a set of instructions to operate the grenade but takes too long after pulling the pin and it explodes in his face. Charles chases Bugs into a railroad tunnel. Charles runs out thinking a train is coming, but it's just Bugs holding a flashlight and blowing into a whistle. Having wised up, Charlie chases Bugs back into the tunnel, but a real train comes out of the tunnel and runs him over. Charles wonders why he ever wanted to catch a train. Out of his hole, Bugs lights a nearby fuse and Charles curiously follows it. At the end of the fuse, Charles gets in the way of an explosive gunpowder keg, which blows up. Bugs then builds a door on a plank of wood stretching out from a cliff. Charles demands to be let in and when Bugs refuses, he burst in and plummets off the cliff lying on the falling door. As Charles crashes into the ravine below, the impact makes Bugs almost fall off the plank, but Bugs manages to save himself. Charles rushes back up to Bugs and breathes heavily on Bugs' fur. Once again Charles forgets what he came after. This time Bugs then decides not to remind him and tells Charlie to let him know when he finally finds out, leaving Charlie to continue to guess. Hours later into the night, way past dinnertime, Charlie is sitting on a rock, still trying to figure out what he wants. Bugs emerges from his hole in his night attire, holding a candle and he bids the audience goodnight.A monomaniacal scientist, Dr. Laird , has invented ultra-sensitive magnetic fields, which begin to attract objects from space. Strange things begin happening, including a freak storm, and insects and spiders begin to mutate into giant monsters. An alien spaceship has appeared over London and begins to warn mankind against the dangers of this scientific experiment.Daffy goes to the beach with his girlfriend Melissa , and wants to take her picture. While posing she sees a muscle-bound duck and turns her attention toward him. Daffy tries to win back his girl and takes some muscle tonic which he thinks has made him as strong as the muscle-bound duck. Daffy repeatedly falls short in his attempts to demonstrate his strength, but through a fluke manages to get rid of his rival in the end.A young orphan boy Skeeter  is being raised in a swamp cabin by his poor and toothless Uncle Jesse . One night a mysterious noise breaks the silence. They later discover that the noise was caused by a strange breed of dog  unknown to them. Rather than a bark the dog has a yodel or laugh. The animal has keen senses and they decide to train her for bird hunting. In time the rightful owner  of the animal appears and due to the rarity of the breed wants it back. Skeeter is forced to "come of age" as it were and surrender the animal. With the reward money given, he is able to purchase Jesse the false teeth that he needs and is able to get himself a hunting rifle, remembering then that Lady is no longer with him.Porky answers the door to Daffy, a pushy insurance salesman, who tries to convince Porky to sign up for a $1 million insurance policy because of getting a simple black eye . Although Porky is temporarily tempted, he calmly escorts Daffy to the door. However, Daffy is not about to give up - he follows Porky around the house, stopping him from doing potentially dangerous things and warning him off. For example, when Porky forgets a screwdriver in his oven, he lights a match and looks inside, pulling the screwdriver out. Daffy runs in, telling Porky about the dangers of using a match in an oven. Instead, he should have used a flashlight, as Daffy demonstrates - just as the oven explodes in his face. Still trying to convince Porky of the dangers around the house, Daffy stuffs a closet full of junk, and proceeds to ask Porky for some items , with Porky each time saying he doesn't have it. By the end, Daffy is desperate and asks if Porky has a yo-yo. Porky confirms he has one, and tells Daffy it's in the closet. Daffy, forgetting to ask Porky to get it for him, runs to the closet and opens the door. All the junk falls on HIM - he comes out of the pile of junk, glumly playing with the yo-yo. In the end, Porky is convinced that Daffy is right - the home is full of hazards , and he signs up for Daffy's policy, convinced all he has to do is get a black eye, and he'll get $1 million. Daffy, however, cackles that Porky should have looked at the fine print - the $1 million is only paid out for a black eye as a result of a stampede of wild elephants running through his house between 3:55 and 4 PM on the Fourth of July, during a hailstorm. Porky is momentarily rebuffed, until a stampede of wild elephants comes through his living room! Daffy then nervously looks at the clock - 3:57 PM. The calendar - 4 July. He sticks his head outside - hailstorm! Porky displays his new black eye and asks to be paid, but Daffy tells him that the clause said "a stampede of wild elephants and one baby zebra"  - and just then, a baby zebra comes trampling through the room. Daffy, laid out on the floor, picks himself up to wearily proclaim: "And one baby zebra!" before passing out.Jack  is a mouse who lives with his valet Rochester ([[Eddie Anderson  inside the walls of the house of famous radio and television star Jack Benny. Before his mouse girlfriend Mary  arrives to celebrate her birthday, Jack has to count the cheese in his vault. When he gets a flyer inviting entertainers to the "Kit Kat Club" for free, Jack and Mary head there in Jack's rattletrap car, but the "club" turns out to be the open mouth of a very hungry cat. As Jack scratchily plays "Tea for Two" on his violin, the cat's mouth closes and the screen goes black. The real-life Jack Benny wakes up, musing about the crazy dream he had, only to hear "Rock-a-bye Baby" played on a violin coming from inside his own cat. He then sees two animated mice &ndash; Jack and Mary &ndash; climbing out of the cat's mouth.Barnyard Dawg invites Foghorn to see a total eclipse for free. Foghorn takes the bait, placing his head through a hole in a fence and Dawg smashes a pumpkin over Foghorn's head. To get revenge, Foghorn sets up a prank by dousing water over Dawg, luring him around a tree, and then punching the Dawg with a trick camera. Henery Hawk is walking on the top of a fence with a rope, and when he sees Foghorn he lassos him around the neck. In response, Foghorn chases Henery away. Dejected, Henery encounters the Dawg, who promises to help him catch Foghorn in exchange for a bone. As he looks for one he also is prompted to get a fish for a cat and some cheese for a mouse. Foghorn sees Henery attempting to retrieve the cheese and runs over to stop him. Foghorn warns Henery that there is a "right way and a wrong way" to handling the mouse trap, which then snaps on Foghorn. Henery meanwhile is at a pond trying to catch a fish. Foghorn then turns his attention to Henery, who based on advice from the cat is digging for a bone. Henery takes the bone and places it in a wagon along with the fish and the piece of cheese. In between assisting Henery, Foghorn pulls various pranks on the Dawg. After that Henery gives the items he collected to their respective collector. Seeing this, Foghorn asks Henery why he did not receive a present. The Dawg knocks Foghorn out cold with the bone, and presents him to Henery. Henery rides the same model train that foghorn used earlier, with the unconscious Foghorn behind him.A naive, rambunctious, overly enthusiastic and socially inept cowboy, Beauregard, and his friend and father-figure Virgil take the bus from Montana to Phoenix, Arizona, to participate in a rodeo. Virgil has encouraged the 21-year-old virgin, "Bo," to take an interest in "girls." Initially reluctant and frightened of the idea, Bo declares that he hopes to find an "angel" and will know her when he sees her. Making trouble everywhere they go, he continues his bad behavior in the Blue Dragon cafe. There he imagines himself in love with the cafe's singer, Chérie, a talentless but ambitious performer from the Ozarks with aspirations of becoming a Hollywood star. Her rendition of "That Old Black Magic" entrances him and he forces her outside, despite the establishment's rules against it, kisses her and thinks that means they're engaged. Cherie is physically attracted to him but resists his plans to take her back to Montana. She has no intention of marrying him and tells him so, but he's too stubborn to listen. The next day, Bo intends to marry Cherie after the rodeo, but she escapes. He tracks her down, and forces her on the bus back to Montana. On the way, they stop at Grace's Diner, the same place the bus stopped on the way to Phoenix. Cherie tries to make another getaway while Bo is asleep on the bus, but the road ahead is blocked by snow and the bus won't be leaving at all. They're all stranded there. The bus driver, the waitress and the cafe owner by now all have learned that Bo is kidnapping and bullying the girl. Virgil and the bus driver fight him until he promises to apologize to Chérie and leave her alone. He, however, is unable to do so because he's humiliated about having been beaten. The next morning, the storm has cleared and everybody is free to go. Bo finally apologizes to Cherie for his abusive behavior and begs her forgiveness. He wishes her well and prepares to depart without her. Chérie approaches him and confesses that she's had many boyfriends and is not the kind of woman he thinks she is. Bo confesses his lack of experience to her. Bo asks to kiss her goodbye and they share their first real kiss. All Cherie wanted from a man was respect, which she'd previously told the waitress when they sat together on the bus. This new Bo attracts Cherie. He accepts her past and this gesture touches her heart. She tells him she'll go anywhere with him. Virgil decides to stay behind. When Bo tries to coerce him to go with them, Cherie reminds him that he can't force Virgil to do what he wants. Having finally apparently learned his lesson, Bo offers Cherie his jacket and gallantly helps her onto the bus.The Stooges are vaudeville entertainers who trek to Mexico to perform their gag bull fight shtick, with Joe as the brave matador, and Moe and Larry dressed in a bull costume. Unfortunately, their gig is cancelled once they arrive, leaving them stranded. Feeling bad for them, attractive señorita Greta  gets the boys a gig at the local bull ring. Joe is so ecstatic that he plants a kiss right on Greta's cheek, much to the chagrin of her jealous husband José . In an act of revenge, José pays the bullring attendant  to release a live bull into the ring. Moe and Larry flee the ring, but Joe is unaware of the switch. He eventually head-butts the wild animal, and is paraded out of the ring to the rousing cheers of "Olé, Americano!"{{Expand section}} The story revolves around a little animated squirrel who, with lots of charm, accidentally helps two economically distressed families overcome their obstacles.A destitute Sylvester rummages through trash in search of food. Nearly out of luck, the cat hears singing coming from atop a tall tree inside an enclosure, looks up and sees Tweety. Sylvester, eager for his supper, rushes inside the enclosure ... unaware that the enclosure is the city dog pound. Sylvester gets attacked by an army of bulldogs, whose purpose in life seemingly is to protect Tweety from predators. Wanting to get by the dogs, Sylvester employs the following tricks, all of them ending in failure: *Holding an umbrella for balance, the cat walks across a guide wire connecting a light pole and the tree. The dogs collectively blow a gust of doggie breath at their foe, causing Sylvester to lose his balance and fall into the waiting horde of dogs. *Digging a tunnel beneath the dog pound, to get at the tree unnoticed and snatch Tweety. The dogs, already having anticipated this latest scheme, have dug their own tunnel and wait for Sylvester to break through to their side. *A dog suit. The dogs startle their new "companion", causing the head to come loose, and Sylvester quickly tries to secure it before the dogs notice. However, either having already noticed or never being fooled from the start, the dogs reject Sylvesterand force him to flee. The cat temporarily gets away, but the city dog catcher quickly returns him to his "home" . *Sylvester tries to climb over the fence, but the fence knocks him to the ground as a dog comes on the outside. The dog goes back in, flipping the fence frame back and revealing Sylvester having been clobbered. *Mass hypnotism, which momentarily evens the odds; by staring at the dogs, Sylvester is able to freeze and paralyze the dogs in place. Sylvester easily grabs Tweety, who panics and helplessly yells to his protectors to kidnap him. When Sylvester blurts out the secret to un-freezing the dogs , Tweety instantly provides one and begins to blow ... except Sylvester quickly sees that coming and places a glass over Tweety. But Tweety fights back by poking Sylvester's palm with a needle ... and breaking the dogs' out of their trance. *Entering an empty dog pound, Sylvester tries climbing the tree ... only to discover the dogs waiting on the branches. *Blasting himself off in a rocket, the rocket shoots without him and he is shown furless. *A swing, which Sylvester hopes will allow him to swing harmlessly above the dogs to the tree. However, the swing's reach is too low, and the dogs are able to get at Sylvester ... who never returns to the outside. The final attempt nearly works: Painting a phony skunk stripe down his back to scare the dogs away. This plan proves to work too well: just as he grabs Tweety and makes his getaway, he is intercepted by Pepé Le Pew who tries to make love to what Pepé believes is female skunk. Tweety looks on and comments that he "always knew that puddy tat was a stinker" as the cartoon fades out a high pitched kissing sound is heard just the "That's all Folks" title card appears.Granny leaves the house for an outing, but as she drives by the house and waves goodbye to Tweety, she sees Sylvester has gotten into the house and is about to eat the bird. Granny stops the cat in time and, fed up with his constant chasing after Tweety, gives him an ultimatum: "If there's so much as one little feather harmed on the canary, it's off to the violin string factory!" . As Sylvester sulks in the corner, Tweety is about to face a new threat—a rough-looking orange cat wearing an eyepatch. The unnamed orange cat is after a meal of his own and is uncaring that Sylvester will be deemed responsible if Tweety is noticed missing. As such, the chase now casts Sylvester not as the predator but as the  protagonist who plans to save Tweety from a predatory cat before Granny returns—more to save his own skin. After several exchanges, with both Sylvester and the orange cat clobbering each other, Sylvester finally gets rid of the predatory cat by blowing him up in Granny's chimney . However, Sylvester's efforts are in vain. As he is putting Tweety back in the cage, Granny enters and, assuming he was after Tweety, promises to make good on her earlier threat. Sylvester tried to explain what really happened before declaring: "Aw, what's the use! She'll never believe me!", then he plays Chopin on his violin and falls into the violin case as a coffin to his doom.Artie Pinsetter  is a junk collector and amateur inventor who lives in the desert town of Candy Rock. Artie's fiancée, Emmy Lou Raven  happens upon magical waters of Dinosaur Springs and is changed into a thirty-foot giantess. While nervously explaining to her uncle that she has gotten "big" , he insists that they be married immediately. Artie eventually restores her to normal size.{{Plot}} Mammy Two Shoes  is sweeping the floor and Tom relaxing near Jerry's mouse hole. Tom raises his feet to let Mammy sweep under him, while Jerry is undisturbed as he comes out of his mouse hole and returns with a piece of cheese. As the mouse returns home, Mammy points him out to Tom, but the cat takes simply one glance before returning to sleep. The mailman rings the doorbell. She eagerly goes to answer the door, and receives a package. Mammy has been expecting this particular package, as she opens it to reveal Mechano, a talented robotic cat. Mammy calls Tom over to show him Mechano, using this as an official opportunity to downsize him after his laziness. In disbelief, both Tom and Jerry laugh out loud. To silence the cat, Mammy then turns on Mechano with the remote control, and it immediately darts to the mouse, hits him with a hammer, and slingshots him out through the window. Mammy then laughs, while, the sad, helpless and unwanted cat packs up and leaves the house. Mammy prides the "new-fangled" piece of machinery on its job and, as she flounces triumphantly out of the room. Jerry tries to get back into his hole in defiance, using various disguises to elude the computerized cat. First, the mouse sneaks through the mail slot with a letter for cover, but Mechano is still able to detect him. Jerry outruns him all the way to his hole, but Mechano hits him with a tennis racquet just in time. The machine hits Jerry again to bounce him into the air and then lobs him out through the window. Next, Jerry tries to sneak in through a garden hose, but Mechano chops the hose with an ax just in front of the mouse. Jerry tries to inconspicuously slip backwards through the hose and is cut off in that direction as well. Mechano continues to chop at the hose as Jerry turns around again, and Jerry is only left with a small section of hose such that he crawls like a worm. The mouse tries to crawl underneath the door slot and only does so in time to avoid getting chopped in half. To avoid being so conspicuous, Jerry slingshots himself from the front yard towards his mouse hole, but Mechano catches him with a baseball glove. The mechno-cat then loads Jerry into a cannon and uses the mouse's tail as a fuse, who is shot out of the window. Knowing he cannot win by himself, Jerry inserts a series of clockwork mice under the door slot to create a diversion army for Mechano. Everything quickly goes as planned: Mechano starts to attack the mice and the house as soon as it detects them. The machine chops up the piano with an axe, breaks the china with his cannon, saws a table with a buzzsaw, and launches dynamite into a mouse hole causing serious wreckage to the house. Mammy hears all of this, sees Mechano chopping into the floor after one of the mice, and yells at Mechano to stop. However, the computer will only respond to the controller, so nothing happens. Mammy runs around screaming for Tom's help and is quickly heard by him. Mammy runs away from the assault as Mechano tries to break through wardrobes and doors to chase the "mice" and ends up breaking himself to pieces. Mechano's computer hub, unfortunately, gets accidentally swallowed by Tom just before the maid reaches him. Mammy, with great relief, welcomes the cat back into the house, grateful to have him back on mouse-catching duties. However, Jerry gets the last laugh when he turns Mechano's remote control on, causing Tom to transform into Mechano! The terrified housemaid watches helplessly and starts screaming as the mechanixed Tom activates and goes on a path of destruction.An alley cat is being chased by a dim-witted bulldog. In order to escape, the cat jumps into a box full of magicians props and discovers a ventriloquists device for throwing his voice. With his newly acquired powers of ventriloquism, the cat plays a series of practical jokes on the bulldog. Ultimately the jokes backfire on the cat.As he has in previous cartoons, Bugs is traveling underground, only this time he winds up in France at the headquarters of Napoleon Bonaparte, aptly called Headquartiers du Napoleon. Napoleon is shown planning a military offensive and gets into an argument with Bugs over where the artillery should be placed. When Bugs agrees with his original idea Napoleon angrily places it where Bugs said it should go and takes snuff. Bugs takes some as well, but sneezes on the plans, knocking the models over. Napoleon thinks Bugs is a saboteur, and sends a guard after him. Bugs easily outwits the incompetent guard  and causes him to hit Napoleon with a bayonet. Mugsy then gets the "point" of the bayonet from Napoleon offscreen-and goes howling in to the air. Bugs then disguises himself as Josephine and asks Napoleon to dance. Napoleon sees Bugs' tail through the disguise and chases Bugs, who slides down a staircase. The guard sees Bugs and points his bayonet, intending to stab Bugs as he slides down. Bugs hops off of the staircase and Napoleon is stabbed instead offscreen-he comes back up the staircase screaming in pain. Mugsy then gets the "point" again. Napoleon ends up catching Bugs by holding him at gunpoint and orders him into a guillotine. Bugs runs off with Napoleon in pursuit, running down the guillotine platform and then back up and through the guillotine which is still raised. Napoleon follows Bugs but as he runs through the guillotine the blade falls and slices the back of his uniform along with the hair from the back of his head. Napoleon demands an explanation from the hooded executioner, who is revealed to be Bugs himself. Bugs then tries to elude Napoleon by hiding in a cannon, but is found when Mugsy is ordered to sound the alarm and fires the cannon. Napoleon resumes his chase of Bugs, but two men in white coats show up and one says to the other: "Hey Pierre, here's another Napoleon", and Pierre replies: "that's the twelfth one today." "But I am Napoleon", the little Commander wails as he's dragged away by them to the nearest insane asylum or "maison d'idiot . Napoleon screams and threatens the men in white coats with death: "I will have you executed for this!!!" Bugs then looks at the camera and says: "Imagine that guy thinking he's Napoleon...[quickly donning a Napoleon hat] when I really am!". He pulls out a flute, playing "La Marseillaise", which becomes "Yankee Doodle" as he marches into the distance.A wrestling match pits professional wrestler Ravishing Ronald, "the de-natured boy" (a parody of Gorgeous George and "Nature Boy" [[Buddy Rogers  against current champion The Crusher. Bugs, the mascot of Ravishing Ronald , watches from a corner as The Crusher uses Ronald, tied up in his own hairnet, as a punching bag. Worried that he's losing his "bread and butter," Bugs enters the match as "The Masked Terror", wearing a mask over his face. The Crusher sees the new opponent as "fresh meat", disposes of Ronald  and goes after Bugs. Bugs tries to wrestle Crusher, but Crusher is able to knock him around and send Bugs flying into the audience. When he's quickly pinned between Crusher's legs, Bugs declares "It's about time for me to employ a little stra-gedy." He then tears his mask apart, which Crusher thinks is a rip in his shorts. Bugs comes back from off-screen wearing a sandwich board advertising his services as "Stychen Tyme," a tailor. While humming the tune to "Stitch In Time," Bugs jabs a needle in Crusher's backside, causing him to fly screaming through the audience. Crusher then comes charging back, but Bugs opens a safe door, letting Crusher run through it and bounce off the ring before bouncing back into the now closed door. A now disoriented Crusher is able to be pinned . When the match ends and Bugs is declared the new champion, Crusher snaps out of it. He offers his hand to shake Bugs', despite the crowd's objections . Bugs relents, but when Crusher tries to bite Bugs' hand, he's instead biting through a stick of dynamite, which blows up in his face. Now finally done with Crusher, Bugs tries to flex his muscle... but sees his muscle droop instead. Bugs simply accepts being weak, pushing his drooping muscle like a little swing.The Goofy Gophers are about to harvest the carrots in a farm's carrot patch when the farmer beats them to the punch . Worried that their food source is being "vandalized," they follow the truck to the barn so they can recover what they consider to be their food. After waiting for the farmer to leave, they run into the barn to reclaim their stolen property, but they spot Barnyard Dawg sleeping in front of the truck and retreat outside. As Tosh points out how they would never stand a chance against Dawg if he woke up, Mac explains that the best way is to take back the vegetables is get Dawg out of the barn and he has just the plan to do it. First, Mac lowers a big pot lid over Dawg so that Tosh spreads banana peels over the floor and whacks the lid with a mallet. Shaking from the vibrations, Dawg slips over the banana peels and straight into the water trough where he finds himself face to face with a deadpan pig. At this point, Tosh is eager to reclaim the vegetables, but Mac reminds him that Dawg will return, from which they will initiate Phase Two of their plan to wear him down psychologically. Sure enough, Dawg returns and looks in the mirror, but finding nothing wrong, just shrugs it off and goes back to sleep. The Goofy Gophers then carry out Phase Two, which involves Tosh taking a rope through the pulley of the well and tieing it to Dawg's tail while Mac ties the other end to a large hay bale. As soon as they are ready, Mac pushes down the hay bale so that it drags Dawg out of the barn and drops him in the bucket so he falls down into the well. Dawg manages to pull himself out and finds himself face to face with the deadpan pig again and gives a disturbing chuckle . Confused, Dawg returns to the barn and picks out a book titled "The Significance Of Dreams" written by Dr. Sigmund Fraud. When Chapter 4 recommends that Dawg must convince himself that what he experienced was just a nightmare that never happened, Dawg laughs it off and settles back to sleep. The Goofy Gophers then initiate Phase Three of their plan . They saw a hole in the floor  and take Dawg to the pond, where they agree it will be a real shock for him. Sure enough, a duck in a bad mood swims up to Dawg and gives a rude quack, which startles Dawg into waking up and seeing his new surroundings. As Dawg begins to shake, the duck swims nervously away  and Dawg runs out of the pond screaming. Now completely shaking all over, Dawg takes out a box of Easy Doze It Sleeping Pills, of which he consumes the whole boxful and drops off to sleep. Once Dawg is fast asleep, as part of Phase Four, Mac wraps a girdle around him and ties it to a cord attached to a hot air balloon, which Tosh fills up with helium. As the balloon carries Dawg away, it snags on the pointed end of the barn roof and tears a hole in itself. With Dawg gone, the Goofy Gophers reclaim their carrots as well as some other vegetables the farmer picked and return them to their hole via a pipe rigged to go from the barn to the hole. Meanwhile, several miles away, the leaking balloon sets Dawg atop a telephone pole. After the cord snaps, waking up Dawg, he finds himself face to face with a crow that's flying by and sees the deadpan pig down below. Now completely confused over what's happened, Dawg mentally snaps by pulling a series of poses and faces, to which the crow shrugs off Dawg's behavior and flies away. Seeing the crow leave, Dawg calls out "Hey, wait for baby!" and, literally, flies off after the crow. At this point, the deadpan pig  also mentally snaps by trying not to smile. Later, in the big city, the deadpan pig has gone to see animal psychiatrist Dr. Cy Kosis  over his mental problem. Just as Kosis is trying to explain to the deadpan pig that dogs don't fly, he happens to spot Dawg go flying past his window. Straight after that, Kosis mentally snaps by dropping his notepad and pencil, joins the deadpan pig on the psychiatrist's couch, and tries not to smile .It's a "typical day" in Dogpatch, U. S. A., a hillbilly town where Abner Yokum lives with his parents. Mammy Yokum insists on giving Abner his daily dose of "Yokumberry tonic," although he is grown. He has a crush on Daisy Mae Scragg  and she on him; Abner's rival for her affections is the World's Dirtiest Rassler, Earthquake McGoon. Sadie Hawkins Day is approaching. On this day the "girls chase the men and marries whomstever [sic] they catches," as Senator Jack S. Phogbound puts it. However, the citizens of Dogpatch find out that their town has been declared the most unnecessary place in the country—and will be the target of an atom bomb, since the nuclear testing site near Las Vegas is allegedly spoiling things for the wealthy gamblers there. Dogpatch people at first are pleased about leaving. They change their minds when Mammy Yokum points out some of the horrible, awful customs they'll have to adapt to, like regular bathing and  going to work for a living. Now anxious to remain, the Dogpatchers try to muster something necessary about their town to save it. The government scientist in charge of the bomb testing, Dr. Rasmussen T. Finsdale, rejects all of their suggestions. However, Mammy brings forth her "Yokumberry Tonic," the substance that has made Abner the handsome, muscular, strapping specimen that he is. The only tree in the whole world that grows Yokumberries exists in the Yokums' front yard. Thus, the town of Dogpatch will become "indispensable" to the outside world. Meanwhile, a greedy business magnate named General Bullmoose covets the tonic as well, since he could market it  and uses his wiles to get the tonic dishonestly. This involves Appassionata von Climax, the general's mistress. He cooks up a scheme to get Ms. von Climax to marry Li'l Abner, after which Abner would be killed and von Climax would become owner of the tonic, "by community property" , and turn it over to Bullmoose. He orders von Climax to enter the race on Sadie Hawkins Day. She catches Li'l Abner  and Daisy Mae ends up heartbroken. But then Daisy, Mammy, Pappy and Marryin' Sam discover  what General Bullmoose is up to; Daisy promises to marry McGoon if he helps them to save Abner's life. McGoon agrees, and rounds up practically everyone in Dogpatch to go to Washington on the rescue mission. McGoon and the other Dogpatchers disrupt the society party at which Abner is supposed to drink a toast as a prelude to suffering the whammy—and the whammy-giver, Evil Eye Fleegle, says it won't work unless the subject has drunk liquor. So Bullmoose calls for a champagne toast. Fleegle is about to strike with his truth whammy, and McGoon deflects the whammy with a silver platter--and the whammy hits Bullmoose, who confesses his scheme. Yokumberry tonic is a failure. Although it made the subjects healthy and muscular, they don't care about romance, to their wives' chagrin.  Back at Dogpatch — with the tonic rejected, the bombing is on again — the wedding of McGoon and Daisy Mae is on; Romeo Scragg and his kin are armed to keep Marryin' Sam from stalling. Daisy Mae has a plan of her own -- she shows McGoon the rest of her Scragg relatives  and he backs out. Dr. Finsdale orders the wedding stopped in order to evacuate. Pappy Yokum and some of the other Dogpatchers start to pull down an equestrian statue of Jubilation T. Cornpone  from a tall pedestal, claiming they won't leave without it. A stone tablet falls, and it turns out to carry an inscription ordered by Abraham Lincoln, who has declared the city of Dogpatch a "National Shrine" because of Cornpone's incompetence as a Confederate General. Abner points out "You can't bomb a national shrine" and Finsdale relents, cancelling the bombing and leaving Abner and Daisy free to marry. {| class40% ! width20%|Role |- | Peter Palmer || Li'l Abner Yokum |- | Leslie Parrish || Daisy Mae |- | Stubby Kaye || Marryin' Sam |- | Howard St. John || General Bullmoose |- | Stella Stevens || Appassionata von Climax |- | Julie Newmar || Stupefyin' Jones |- | Billie Hayes || Mammy Yokum |- | Joe E. Marks || Pappy Yokum |- | Bern Hoffman || Earthquake McGoon |- | Al Nesor || Evil Eye Fleagle |- | Robert Strauss || Romeo Scragg |- | William Lanteau || Available Jones |- | Ted Thurston || Senator Jack S. Phogbound |- | Carmen Alvarez || Moonbeam McSwine |- | Alan Carney || Mayor Dawgmeat |- | Stanley Simmonds || Dr. Rasmussen T. Finsdale |- | Diki Lerner || Lonesome Polecat |- | Joe Ploski || Hairless Joe |- | Jerry Lewis || Itchy McRabbit |- | Donna Douglas || Lovelie |- | Lesley-Marie Colburn || Young Hillbilly Girl |- | Valerie Harper || Luke's Wife |- | Beth Howland || Clem's Wife |- | Brad Harris || Muscleman Luke |- | Gordon Mitchell || Muscleman Rufe |}{{Plot}} When Tom knocks down some crockery while secretly tucking into some chicken. Mammy Two Shoes hears this so he plants the evidence on Jerry, effectively framing the mouse. He then proceeds to dispose of Jerry in front of Mammy Two Shoes. She orders him to get rid of this 'chicken-stealing mouse'. Tom acting like a 'hero' to the maid chases Jerry out in the yard, looks around, throws the mouse and eats the chicken away and takes a nap. Jerry, thinking of a way to put Tom in trouble sees Spike cuddling with his bone and also takes a nap. Jerry quietly takes the bone away from Spike and places it Tom's chest. Spike gets awakened after noticing his bone has disappeared and screams like a man to see Tom with his bone. He angrily warns him stay away from his bone. Tom is thrown back into the tree as Spike storms off. Tom sticks out his tongue and gets whacked again, biting his tongue. He then spots Jerry laughing himself silly. Jerry stops in front of Spike and spins his bone into the air. Tom can't think of anything to do but catch it  Tom tricks Spike into standing up and puts Spike's bone on top of his nose. Spike is incensed at being made to look like a "jackass", but can only go down to sleep, as the cat is nowhere to be seen. Spike drops his bone into a hole that he just dug, but Jerry steals it while Spike isn't looking. Satisfied that Tom won't get to the bone, Spike goes to sleep. Jerry sneaks behind Tom, who is keeping watch behind an automated trash can, ties the bone to Tom's tail, and slams the lid into Tom's face. Jerry makes sure to take the chase past Spike, who is astounded that someone got to his bone. While Tom keeps up the chase, Spike bites on the bone attached to Tom's tail, but gets tangled up in a tree with the cat. Tom ends up in possession of the bone, and when Spike growls, Tom puts it in Spike's mouth, but then winds it up and blows Spike away as if he were a model airplane. Spike decides to go to sleep by his house. Meanwhile, Jerry screws a piece of magnetic iron into Spike's bone, then places a magnet in a sleeping Tom's mouth, causing the bone to end up being attracted to Tom, no matter how many times or how hard Spike tries to retain his grip on the bone and Tom tries to rid himself of it. Tom throws the bone out into the street where Spike chases it, only to miss it twice, in midair then off the fence, which he bites through. He finally does get a hold of it, only to lose it running into the fork of a tree, managing to grab it once more with his tongue before losing it once more. Tom winds up running off down the street with the bone following him , pursued by Spike, with the magnetic bone remaining close to Tom. Jerry, in a tin can, cheers for his victory and the tin can is dragged along in the pursuit. In the final scene, Tom runs off as Spike chases him and Jerry is dragged from the tin can .The film opens with an overhead shot of a sprawling railroad yard in the morning, where all the trains are "fast asleep". The shot begins to focus on a single train No. 2, an American 4-4-0, which is Casey's, which is "slow asleep", and eventually cuts to a closeup of the cab window, where Casey is revealed to be sleeping in his engine cab. Doffing his bedclothes , he checks his watch and realizing that he is behind schedule, hurriedly readies the engine to depart. Mail is loaded aboard the train and with a toot on the whistle, Casey sets off at a dangerously high speed through the maze of switches and sidings, nearly t-boning two other trains in the process before making it safely out of the yard . At first, the trip is uneventful and we see Casey relaxing in a rocking chair in front of the open firedoor, casually stoking it one piece of coal at a time as if it were a parlour stove. Further on, however, the weather turns nasty, flooding the tracks like "the bed of a creek" and all but swamping the train. Eight hours late, but nonetheless undaunted, Casey climbs up on the cab roof and uses his coal shovel as a paddle. Before long, he has cleared the flood and is on his way again. No sooner is the train back up to full speed, though, then Casey is forced to bring it screeching to a halt: standing in the middle of the tracks grazing, is a large brown cow which finally moves aside after much shouting and whistle blowing on Casey's part. Unfortunately, a new problem presents itself. A stereotypical villain with a black handlebar mustache has tied a lady to the tracks in front of Casey's train. Unwilling to waste any more time stopping, Casey rushes forward and stands on the engine's cowcatcher, scooping the terrified woman up just seconds in the moment in which the train is about to run her over. The villain turns to the camera and exclaims theatrically, "Curses! Foiled again!" Casey is in such a hurry now, that he doesn't even stop to let her off, depositing her  in the arms of a pleasantly surprised station master as he rushes past the next platform at full speed. Hours later, night has fallen and we find Casey's engine steaming full-bore through a narrow, snow-covered mountain pass. As the train passes over a high trestle spanning a gorge however, another stereotypical villain who is "not on the level" nearly brings things to an explosive end. Once again undaunted by a seemingly impassable obstacle, Casey's engine struggles, huffing and puffing, up the side of the gorge and continues on its way. A short while later, the camera focuses on a backside shot of a group of armed men on horseback as they watch the train from up on a hillside. Casey is about to get his train attacked by train robbers! The next shot finds the whole gang inside the cab, brandishing their guns and knives menacingly. At first, Casey is so caught up in stoking the boiler, that he is oblivious to their presence. It is only after he inadvertently picks up one of the robbers along with a shovel-full of coal that he finally notices the uninvited company. Even then, Casey is more annoyed by the distraction than anything else and begins to fight the robbers, hitting them repeatedly with his coal shovel while continuing to stoke the boiler. After quickly throwing the last of the would-be thieves off the train, Casey checks his watch and is horrified to discover that the robbers have put him behind schedule once again. Determined to make up for lost time whatever the cost, he opens the throttle so wide that he actually rips the handle from its mount and throws it away. The scenery outside quickly becomes a blur as the train travels faster and faster. He adds more coal to the furnace, and, when running out, he also uses his shovel and rocking chair, until the ribbing on the engine's boiler exterior is forced off. Casey gives the engine some running repairs while the train roars down a hill. Just a bit away a double headed slow freight train, double-headed by a pair of 2-8-0s is chugging towards Casey, who is too busy fixing the engine's dome to notice. The brake-man runs up to the engine to tell Casey about the oncoming double-headed slow freight train is coming, but fails to get the message, and jumps off the train after saying 'So long.', but here's a goof. After jumping from the train, the brakeman is still seen on the engine's roof in the next shot. The crews of the double header who are approaching all gasp and abandon the train as well and run for cover and, just as Casey begins to notice, he finally gasps 'Egad!' one more time before, the two trains begin to collide with a large explosion. Afterwards, we are taken to a station, presumably the one Casey is meant to terminate at, and, Casey being late, the Porter fears the worst. Then, much to his joy and surprise, Casey rolls down the hill in the remains of his engine carrying a bag of mail. A beaten up Casey then shows his watch with pride, it stating he is 'ON TIME-ALMOST'. And the Narrator says 'Next time, take the train!'In the desert, Woody Woodpecker, riding a horse, is gaily strumming a guitar and singing a song of loot long lost. Only he has the map of its location. Woody enters the ghost town of Paradise, dismounts and studies the map. "X" marks the spot in the Snake-Eye Saloon, where the loot is hidden under the floor. Unbeknown to Woody, foul villain Dapper Dan Dooley, hiding in a barrel behind him, sees the map over his shoulder. Woody enters the saloon, closely followed by Dooley. Woody locates the "X" spot and finds a strongbox. Dooley grabs and opens the box, and he has his nose caught in a mousetrap. Woody recaptures the box and runs with it, only to lose it to Dooley again when Woody runs into a closed door. The box changes hands many times as Woody and Dooley, in a battle of wits and trickery, fight for its possession. Finally, Woody gains permanent possession of the box when Dooley, on a small wooden horse with a large rocket attached to its pole, is shot into space as both Woody and the horse give the famous Woody laugh.Daffy is enjoying his "daffy" nature around the forest. Later, Porky pulls up and sets up camp to enjoy the countryside. He paints a landscape picture, briefly interrupted when Daffy poses. Taking a hint, Daffy rides off. Daffy then comes back in and tells Porky he may not paint "his" lakes, but the mountains are okay since he doesn't own them. Porky resumes painting, but Daffy comes back in again, dressed as "The old man in the mountains"—trying to get the mountains out of Porky's painting. Porky sees through the disguise and tries to use a shotgun against Daffy, but Daffy runs out of scene and runs back in as a sheriff, who calls for an executioner. The sheriff walks out and the executioner  appears with an axe. At the last moment, Porky is "saved" by Pocahontas . However, when "Captain John Smith" doesn't agree to marry "her", Daffy starts making war whoops—until Porky shuts him up. Porky then decides to try fishing, putting a bait attached to a bell. Daffy fools Porky twice by ringing the bell and Porky gets the better of Daffy by trying to chop him with an axe, but Daffy then rings his own bell—only to be surprised when Porky does catch a fish. Daffy then asks about the various licenses Porky has. Daffy annoys Porky, who responds by throwing a rock at Daffy, but Daffy makes out like they're in a baseball game, and encourages Porky as Joe DiMaggio to slide for home. Porky realizes too late that he's not really DiMaggio and lands in a mud puddle. Porky then starts packing up his trailer to get away from Daffy. Daffy climbs into Porky's engine, deliberately throws out the engine and closes the hood. Porky tries starting the car, but gets Daffy's stalled motor sound. When Daffy makes the sound while Porky is out of the car, Porky jumps in, makes some "adjustments", then climbs back in the car. Porky 'starts' the car again, pulling on the 'choke' lever, which causes a mechanical arm to pop out and choke Daffy, who is now wired in to the car and is powering it. Daffy mentions that Porky has absolutely no right to do this, until yet another license pops out, showing that Porky does indeed have a license to use Daffy as a motor.{{Plot}} Spike and Tyke are off on a picnic, but while putting their food in the picnic basket, the ensuing chase between Tom and Jerry results in Jerry jumping into the basket and Tom throwing out the entire contents, before Tom realizes that Spike is just behind him and hurriedly puts the spoiled food back in the basket again. Spike and Tyke set out on their picnic, resolving to themselves to have the cat kept away. Jerry remains hidden in Spike and Tyke's picnic basket, but soon becomes aware that he is exposed. He takes a hot dog and draws a likeness of himself on it to fool the cat. Tom falls for it and has strung along an angry Spike along with all the hot dogs in the basket before he realizes what has happened. Tom whistles and throws a hot dog into the pool and Spike goes after it and hits his head. Spike realizes he's a "sucker". As Spike lays out the picnic rug, Jerry leaves the basket and hides behind some mushrooms, then walks away and is soon found by Tom. Jerry jumps into Tyke's sandwich and Tom swipes it, then drops it and flees. Tyke is about to eat the sandwich until Spike stops him. "Don't eat that one, son!" he snaps "It's dirty!" and throws it away. Soon enough, Tom is chasing the Jerry-sandwich until Jerry jumps into Spike's hands and Tom has to stop and turn back or else get beaten up. Spike throws it away and Tom starts chasing it again within seconds until it jumps into the basket. Tom grabs it, but has to "punish" himself when Spike catches him. Tom runs away. Spike grabs for the "living" bread, but Jerry hides under the next slice so that he's not found. Spike pokes it, and when no movement is detected, Spike gets ready to eat it and gives the next one to Tyke. This is the one Jerry is in, and the sandwich jumps back into the basket. Jerry tosses it back out and Spike hits it with a branch. Spike detects nothing, so they eat it. Jerry spots a bush moving and soon sees that Tom is trying to disguise himself as he creeps toward the basket. Tom reaches in and feels Jerry, but instead gets a tomato. Jerry throws a second tomato at Spike and the jig is up. Spike chases Tom and while he has the lead, Tom searches the basket for Jerry. On the third search, he is bitten by Spike, who hid inside this time. Tom sprays pepper at Spike's face, and then Spike sneezes Tom off into the distance. However, he runs into a wire fence, which shoots him back towards the basket. Tom swipes it and taunts the dogs until he runs into a tree, knocks out a section of the trunk, and is crushed by the rest of it. Jerry runs back to Spike and Tyke with the basket as his cover. Spike is now guarding the basket himself, waking up occasionally. Tom, perched high up in an apple tree, uses a fishing rod to grab Jerry down below in the picnic basket. His efforts prove unsuccessful, as each time, he ends up catching food. Nevertheless, Tom places the food on the tree branch beside him as he continues to fish for Jerry. Meanwhile, an army of hungry ants  see Tom and the food that he has got with him, high in the tree, and crawl their way up there. Tom finally succeeds in catching Jerry with the fishing rod, and holds him delightfully in his hands. However, the emergence of the ants results in the combined weight of the marching ants shaking the tree branch violently. A sleeping Spike and Tyke end up being awoken as Tom, Jerry, the ants and a barrage of apples from the tree fall down on them. Spike is about to kill Tom as punishment, as both characters  watch the food being taken away by the ants, with Jerry waving from inside a sandwich being carted off by several of the ants.Ralph comes home to prepare a surprise birthday for his wife Alice. What prevents Ralph from getting party food is a cat in the kitchen. Ralph goes to the kitchen sink to ask Ned Morton for help. Ned gets Ralph to ride a clockwork car with a cannon. As Ralph prepares to fire the cannon on the cat, the cat backfires the cannon on Ralph, forcing Ralph to retreat. Next Ralph paints so-called invisible ink  on Ned convincing him he is invisible. Ned confidentially walks past the cat plucking a whisker. When Ned returns, he has eaten the cake he was supposed to bring. Ralph getting impatient has Ned paint him with "invisible ink" and Ralph goes to towards the fridge only to be massacred by the cat. Next Ned launches Ralph from champagne bottle cork right in the cat's mouth and through his tail right over to the fridge, but the cat forces Ralph to retreat again. Both mice lure the cat on to the sink so that they can put his tail down the plughole. Then they activate the disposal pipe causing the cat to lose much of his fur and giving the mice the chance to take a cupcake from the fridge. Ralph and Ned finally have everything ready for Alice. Alice is flattered by Ralph's surprise. Unfortunately Ned put firecrackers instead of candles on the cupcake. After passing to and fro, Ralph and Ned push the cupcake in the cat's face, causing the cat to fly on to the ceiling light leaving him dazed.The Stooges are repairmen who are on trial for stealing chickens, but are found not guilty. However, Shemp opens his suit jacket, resulting in a live chicken flying out of his grip and into the face of Judge Henderson . The boys then flee the courtroom, and pursue some work.  The trio comes upon a lady customer  whose doorbell is in need of repair. The Stooges manage to ruin most of the house while working on the wiring, ultimately clobbering the chef  who is preparing dinner at the customer's house. The irate chef abruptly quits, resulting in the Stooges being hired to prepare dinner for her husband's birthday party. To their shock and horror, the party in question is for none other than Judge Henderson, and their lady customer is the Judge's wife. Now frantic, the trio try their best to make the dinner at least partially edible. All hell nearly breaks loose when the birthday cake they prepare is accidentally pierced, deflating in the process. The cake is then "re-inflated" using town gas through the gas stove's connection. During the party, Judge Henderson blows out the candles, and the gas-filled cake explodes. The judge angrily realizes who the new "help" are, and the Stooges are forced to leave in a hurry.After winning the house-of-the-future Ma and Pa are content. Until they receive a notice stating that they have won a contest from the Bubble-Ola Company, and the prize - a free all-paid trip to New York City. Ma tells Pa that they can't go because they have no one to look out for the kids. Meanwhile, famous bank robber Shotgun Munger crashes and drives into the Kettle Farm. Pa comes along and greets him, after a long conversation Munger tells Pa that he can stay and watch over the kids . So, Ma and Pa Kettle go to New York City and get in contact with their daughter-in-law Kim and their son Tom.{{Plot}}  Tom and Spike, living together as friends, happily eating heartily. Tom drops a piece of bread and Jerry tries to steal it. Tom steps on his tail and pops him back into his hole. They overhear an argument taking place between the owners of the house named Joan and George. George is complaining about the first day of month with too many bills. Joan and George decide that the food costs are far too high. George reads all of the costs saying Dog food and Cat food. They argue whether to get rid of Tom or Spike. They conclude that only one pet can stay in the house. When both Tom and Spike prove to be as helpful as each other in cleaning the house and providing good company, George and Joan make a deal: the first to catch Jerry stays in the house. The race begins. Tom grabs Jerry and Spike is standing and punches him. Then, Spike is going to a shortcut and his hands were stuck and Tom grabs Jerry. Spike gets a door closed on him. Spike then erects a sign that says "DETOUR" and turns Tom into the closet with him. Tom gets walloped with a golf club. Spike is pulled into the floor grate and flattened into the likeness of a nail. Tom presents Jerry to George's chair, but Spike, disguised as George, leaps out and grabs Jerry. Tom shakes Spike's hand in a gesture of surrender, packs up his possessions and sets out for the door. Spike follows him to comfort the cat, and Tom slyly substitutes Jerry with "his" possessions when Spike is not looking and ushers him out the door. Spike falls for it until he's about to leave the yard. He then realizes he has been tricked by Tom, and his head turns into a donkey . Enraged, he angrily runs back towards the house.  Tom laughs at his victory until Spike busts through the door and flattens him. Spike starts chasing Jerry as Tom frees himself. He is compressed into a cylinder. Spike grabs Jerry and is flipped judo-style by Tom. Tom and Spike then duel with swords, destroying a lot of the house. They see Jerry run across a carpet, and they roll it up and cut it up until Tom slices off George's slippers. When Tom and Spike realise their own mistake, an enraged George starts yelling at both of them to begin packing immediately. Later on, he and Joan decide that Jerry will be their new pet, believing that he doesn't eat a lot and are unaware that his mouse hole is stocked with a lot of food. Letting his new owners believe he doesn't eat much, Jerry happily eats his cheese. George then asks Tom and Spike if they were done packing, to which they nod yes in reply. George tells them to take what is their belonging and leave. After hearing him say it, Tom and Spike attempt to sneak out of the house with the fridge. However, they are spotted by George who orders them to return the fridge back into the kitchen at once. Panicking, they flee with the fridge and run away into the sunset.Bugs is about to conduct "The Warner Bros. Symphony Orchestra"  fancily. When he finishes his elaborate preparation, he starts to conduct, but is interrupted by someone in the audience couching loudly. Bugs then holds out a sign saying "Throw the bum out!", which the audience does. Other problems plague Bugs' conducting, notably a bothersome fly and some awkward cuffs that keep falling off. In the middle of the performance, Bugs acts an indigenous person being chased by American troops . The fly then returns at the end of the act, landing in Bugs' nose. Bugs then loses his sanity and attempts to kill the fly, crashing into the orchestra and the instruments as he does so. As the music comes to a stop, Bugs bows for the crowd, and instead of applause, hears only silence and crickets chirping. Bugs looks around to see that the seats are empty and the crowd has gone, though he does hear some faint clapping - coming from the fly. Bugs bows to the fly and the episode ends.Bugs Bunny arrives in the Ozarks just his sort of place for vacation. But in a small cottage placed atop a tall bare tree lives a bumpkin buzzard and his son Elvis. Elvis spots Bugs and decides to lure him with a carrot. Bugs of course notices his attempt from a tree stump. Bugs puts his hand out to feel the carrot long enough to lure Elvis to the hole entrance, and Elvis pulls out of the hand which turns out to be a long hose with a white glove on the end of it. Bugs turn on the water tap sends Elvis back and forth between two trees, until Bugs turns off the water and Elvis falls to the ground. Bugs asks Elvis what is going to with the snake. Elvis panics and flies off toward the cottage and comes back with a rifle. When Bugs tells him there are no snakes, Elvis points his rifle at Bugs and shoots, but misses. Bugs inches closer and Elvis backs off until he falls off a cliff. As Elvis starts to have another go at Bugs, he falls for Bugs dressed as a pretty hillbilly lady. Later he realises its Bugs and shoots at him, Bugs diving into his rabbit hole. Elvis points his rifle in the hole and demands Bugs come out. Bugs refuses. As Elvis gives Bugs the count of four, Bugs attaches some pipes from the end of the rifle to where the father buzzard is lounging in his cottage. After the countdown is up, Elvis shoots his father in the face. A misunderstanding makes Elvis shoot his father repeatedly, the continuity made by Bugs dressed for golf.Gambler Jason Sweet  wins a herd of sheep in a poker game and proceeds to take them by train into the middle of cattle country. It is not long before the townsfolk take notice , but Sweet is more than up to the challenge. The first thing he does is pick a fight with the roughest, toughest man around, "Jumbo" McCall , and beat him up. He also reveals himself to be an expert with a gun. Dell Payton  does not know what to make of him, but is attracted to him, as is he to her. Her fiancé, local cattle baron "Colonel" Steven Bedford , is troubled by this and also because he and Sweet know each other. The newcomer recognizes Bedford as an old acquaintance, Johnny Bledsoe, a card sharp and gunfighter gone respectable. When Bedford finds himself losing their battle for domination, despite initially having the whole town behind him, he sends for professional gunman Chocktaw Neal . Chocktaw and his two buddies all have grudges against Sweet. Chocktaw tries to goad Sweet into a shootout, but Sweet spots Chocktaw's friends, aiming at him with their rifles. Fortunately, Dell and Milt Masters  are able to disarm them, and Sweet is quicker to the draw than Chocktaw. The final showdown comes down to Bedford and Sweet. Sweet is faster and smarter, and Bedford ends up dead. Then, to Dell's utter astonishment, Sweet sells the sheep so he can buy cattle. He explains he only kept them because he refuses to be pushed around by anybody. The couple then ride away together.Wile. E. Coyote  attempts several ways to get the Roadrunner . The Roadrunner reaches two outcroppings. When Wile E. tries it, the end of said outcropping comes off. Just when he thought he was going to suffer gravity yet again, Wile. E was saved by a tree branch. He tries to go on the plateau nearby, only for the plateau to fall to a river. A fish nearby is spooked when Wile E. gets his newest scheme. 1. The Coyote races after the Roadrunner with his new roller skates. When the Roadrunner tries to trip the Coyote, Wile E., in time, leaps in the air and sticks his tongue out at the Roadrunner. Little does he know, he is about to fall of a cliff yet again! He ends up in the ground, with only his feet sticking out, as the wheels fall off one of the skates. 2. After getting an explosive camera kit, Wile E. prepares for his newest deception. The Roadrunner is intrigued by the signs. When the Roadrunner got ready for his picture, the gun goes off on the Coyote. As the Roadrunner speeds away, Wile E. sees the one flaw of his attempt: he forgot to take off the lens cap that was on the entire time. 3. As the Roadrunner taunts the Coyote from above, Wile E. prepares a trampoline. However, when he jumps, he gets trapped inside like a burlap sack. 4. Now armed with a crossbow and dynamite, Wile E. prepares for his plan. However, when he lights the fuse and the Roadrunner comes, the crossbow fires yet the dynamite is left behind. 5. Now resorting to his best friend Acme, Wile E. receives a jet propelled pogo stick. However, when the Coyote prepares the pogo stick, it propels him to the cliff behind him. Down he goes again. 6. Using railroad deception again, Wile E. hammers a crossing sign, accompanied by Hi-Fi Railroad Crossing Sounds and tracks set up. When the Roadrunner stops, the Coyote tries to catch the bird, only to be run over by an actual train. 7. Having almost blowing his top with simple traps, Wile E. uses 12 bombs down an extremely long slide. He lifts the slide door to release the bombs from their bin, but none of them come out. He tries shaking the bin moderately, then violently. He douses the fuses to try to get them to go out, but when he tries to stomp on them, Boom! A dazed Wile E. slides down. The Roadrunner passes over him to add insult to injury. 8. Wile E. receives another of Acme's products, a jet propelled unicycle. When the Coyote lights the fuse, he is dragged away. Wile E. tries to balance himself and succeeds. When he passes the Roadrunner, he tries to get him, but didn't move when he seemed to speed off. Wile E. falls down off a cliff and the resulting cloud of smoke has the words The End on it.Hob Danvers comes to a Tucson, Arizona rodeo with Sylvia Lorgan in tow. Hob has been separated from wife Ruth for two years, and doesn't realize she intends to be at the rodeo. He meets up with old friends Lew and Meg Hutchins and learns that Lew is here looking for work. He is shocked to find that Lew's new job, after many years as a rodeo rider, is now as a clown. Current rodeo star Jackie Roach turns up and makes a pass at Sylvia, who rejects him. Hob competes in bareback riding and so impresses Lew's young son that Lew bribes a cowboy to change places and let him ride a bucking bronco. Lew is thrown and badly injures his leg. Ruth scolds the others for encouraging Lew, saying everyone should face the hard truth that his rodeo career is done. Lew, angry now, enters the Brahma bull competition over Meg's objections. Hob goes first and is thrown. Lew, attempting to distract the bull, cannot get away quickly enough due to his bad leg. He is fatally gored. Hob walks away, leaving Sylvia behind, but Ruth joins him on the way out.Joey Norton, seven years old, lives with his older brother Lennie in a lower-middle-class neighborhood of Brooklyn. Joey is too small to be taken seriously by Lennie and Lennie's friends. One day, while their mother is away visiting her sick mother, Lennie and his friends play a joke on Joey. They stage an incident using catsup and a toy gun, so that Joey thinks he has shot and killed his brother. Joey, who is told the police will catch and imprison him, runs to the nearest elevated train station and flees to Coney Island. He seems to forget his predicament and spends the day wandering around the arcades, pony rides, beach—a little boy's paradise. He gets money for snacks by cashing in deposit bottles, and spends the night sleeping under the boardwalk. Meanwhile, Lennie is frantically trying to find him, as their mother is due home soon. Joey loves horses, and he begins hanging around a pony ride. The proprietor of the ride becomes suspicious that Joey is a runaway. He tricks Joey into giving him his address. He calls home and alerts Lennie. Lennie comes to Coney Island and, after a frantic search, finds little Joey. Their mother returns just after the two brothers arrive home. She is unaware of what happened, and, pleased that her two sons behaved so well during her absence, says they will have a treat that weekend: a trip to Coney Island!The story opens in a town called Doughnut Center with a caption that reads "What A Hole" and Sam reading a newspaper indicating that a local widow ([[Granny  has just inherited $50 million. Sam plots to marry Granny, take the money, close the orphanage and get rid of the police department, but Bugs overhears him and plots to foil the plan by disguising himself and posing as a rival French suitor. Granny is very excited to have two suitors, but Sam is not. Challenging Bugs by throwing down a gauntlet, he slaps him with a yellow glove ; Bugs slaps him with a brick-filled glove. Bugs then challenges Sam, who puts on a Daffy Duck beak, a Porky Pig bowtie and a Donald Duck hat, to a shooting round at ten paces. Timing the steps, Bugs waits until a bus  arrives for Sam to fire, causing him to be run over by it . Bugs then disguises himself and poses as Granny, teasing him and pushing a piano down the stairs on him . The real Granny arrives and offers a cup of black coffee. While Sam waits for his coffee, Bugs returns disguised again, and asks whether Sam wants one lump or two . Sam replies two, and receives two blows from a mallet . The real Granny returns with Sam's coffee, and Sam violently kicks the cup after she asks the same question, causing her to gasp: "He's flipped his lid!" Hiding in an upstairs room, she acts like Elmer Fudd and shoots at Sam whenever he tries to enter. Outside the room, Bugs whistles at him and  suggests they elope after Sam says he wants the lumps. After Bugs hits him on the head with the mallet, Sam spins around like the Tasmanian Devil, dons a pair of Wile E. Coyote ears and says, "I LIKE IT, I LIKE IT!"  Bugs then begins throwing down things  he wants them to take along. So many things are thrown down that Sam says, "That dame's takin' everything but the kitchen sink and the cat!" The kitchen sink and Sylvester are then promptly thrown down as well. Sylvester says Tweety's quote, "Bad ol' puddy tat!" Sam says, "I'm not the "puddy tat", you are!" The last to go is the safe, which falls on Sam, and he and Bugs go to get married. At the church, Bugs' gown bottom gets caught by a nail in the floor and carpet and comes off, and Sam, still dazed, refuses to marry him and runs off. Bugs makes a Trollface and mock cries: "Boo-hoo-hoo! Always a bridesmaid but never a bride. Boo-hoo-hoo-hoo!" Iris out.This cartoon short is based on the fairy tale The Elves and the Shoemaker, set 150 years after that story took place .If the cartoon was made in 1956 , 150 years before that would be 1804-1806 Elmer Fudd is the progressive King of industrial Elves. He is doing role call, only to discover that some of his elves are missing. His elf helper tells him that the elves are helping an outmoded shoemaker, but Elmer points out that it's the 20th century. He tells his elf helper to get the elves back or he'll mark them AWOL, just before telling the elf helper that if he is turned into a mouse, he must say "Rumpelstiltskin". At the shop, the elf helper tells the shoemaker that he must take the elves back, but the shoemaker wants to stay in business. Unfortunately, his pet cat, Sylvester, uses the magic word, "Jehoshaphat" to turn Elmer's elf helper into a mouse and chases him around the shoemaker's shop. Saying "Rumpelstiltskin" changes him back to an elf, much to the disgust of Sylvester, who puts the elf helper down. The shoemaker puts Sylvester up so that he cannot interfere. Elmer comes to the shop and explains the role of capitalism and mass production to the shoemaker, who then agrees to use this knowledge to stay in business. Four months later, the shoemaker's little shop has literally become a shoe factory. Elmer comes back to see how the shoemaker was "pwogwessing", and the shoemaker says that he has gotten over 500 orders and next month his business will be expanding. This reminds him to come up with a name for his new boot line up, and he comes up with the new name:"Jehoshaphat Boots!", only this literally turns Elmer into a mouse, who forgets that Rumpelstiltskin is the magic word, and runs as Sylvester decides to chase him out of the factory and into the distance just as the cartoon ends with Elmer finally saying "Wumpewstiwtskin!"The Great Wooley  is a magician who is entertaining GIs in Japan. Upon their arrival, he causes a series of unfortunate mishaps for the headliner, actress Lola Livingston , including tearing her dress, knocking her down a flight of stairs, and rolling her up in the red carpet. An orphan, Mitsuo Watanabe  witnesses the spectacle and laughs for the first time since his parents died. When his aunt Kimi Sikita  brings the boy to Wooley to thank him, he and the boy become close, which irritates the aunt's boyfriend, a Japanese baseball player, as well as a USO liaison  who has fallen for Wooley. Wooley doesn't want to disappoint the boy by letting him find out that he has been a total flop, so he tries to sneak away when it is time for him to return to America. The boy follows him, and Wooley must pretend that he no longer cares for the boy, which makes him cry. However, he still follows him to America by stowing away on the plane. Once in America, they are reunited and Wooley is accused of kidnapping "Mitzi" who is then returned to Japan. Wooley follows in the same way that "Mitzi" did but is "smarter" by hiding in a specially marked trunk but must be rescued after it falls off the baggage train after which Mr. Wooley decides to stay and become a successful performer of magic in Japan.Small town boy made good, producer Larry returns to his home farm town and asks his friends, Joe and sister Tiny , to join his New York nightclub act. But Tiny has a fear of performing in front of a live audience, so Larry and Joe take Tiny to a German psychiatrist , who uses hypnosis to take Tiny back to the childhood origin of her problem. Once this is discovered, Tiny becomes a professional singer, making her debut onstage with Joe and Larry.One night after hearing the words of Maxwell H. Brock , a poet who performs at The Yellow Door cafe, socially awkward busboy Walter Paisley  returns home to attempt to create a sculpture of the face of the hostess Carla . He stops when he hears the meowing of Frankie, the cat owned by his inquisitive landlady, Mrs. Surchart , who has somehow gotten himself stuck in Walter's wall. Walter attempts to get Frankie out using a knife, but accidentally kills the cat when he sticks the knife into his wall. Instead of giving Frankie a proper burial, Walter covers the cat in clay, leaving the knife stuck in it.  The next morning, Walter shows the cat to Carla and his boss Leonard . Leonard dismisses the oddly morbid piece, but Carla is enthusiastic about the work and convinces Leonard to display it in the café. Walter receives praise from the beatnik ([[John Brinkley  and poets in the café and is approached by an adoring fan, Naolia , who gives him a vial of heroin to remember her by. Naively ignorant of its function, he takes it home and is followed by Lou Raby , an undercover cop, who attempts to take him into custody for narcotics possession. In a blind panic, thinking Lou is about to shoot him, Walter hits him with the frying pan he is holding, killing Lou instantly. Meanwhile, Walter's boss discovers the secret behind Walter's "Dead Cat" piece when he sees fur sticking out of it. The next morning, Walter tells the café-goers that he has a whole new piece, which he calls "Murdered Man." Both Leonard and Carla come with Walter as he unveils his latest work and are simultaneously amazed and appalled. Carla critiques it as "hideous and eloquent" and deserving of a public exhibition. Leonard is aghast at the idea, but realizes the potential for wealth if he plays his cards right. The next night, Walter is treated like a king by almost everyone, except for a blonde model named Alice , who is widely disliked by her peers. Walter later follows her home and confronts her, explaining that he wants her to model. At Walter's apartment, Alice strips nude and poses in a chair, where Walter proceeds to strangle her with her scarf. Walter creates a statue of Alice which, once unveiled, so impresses Brock that he throws a party at the Yellow Door in Walter's honor. Costumed as a carnival fool, Walter is wined and dined to excess. After the party, Walter later stumbles towards his apartment. Still drunk, he beheads a factory worker with his own buzz-saw to create a bust. When he shows the head to Leonard, his boss realizes that he must stop Walter's murderous rampage and promises Walter a show to offload his latest "statues." At the exhibit, Walter proposes to Carla, but she rejects him. Walter is distraught and now offers to sculpt her, and she happily agrees to after the reception. Back at the exhibit, however, she finds part of the clay on one figure has worn away, revealing a human finger. When she tells Walter that there is a body in one of the sculptures, he tells her that he "made them immortal," and that he can make her immortal too. She flees the exhibit, and he chases after her. Meanwhile, the others at the exhibit learn Walter's secret as well, and chase after them. Walter and Carla wind up at a lumber yard where Walter, haunted by the voices of Lou and Alice, stops chasing after Carla, and runs home. With discovery and retribution closing in on him, Walter then vows to "hide where they'll never find me." The police, Carla, Leonard and Maxwell break down Walter's apartment door only to find that Walter has hanged himself. Looking askance at the hanging corpse, Maxwell proclaims that this could be "his greatest work" and that he would probably had named it "Hanged Man."Professor Beest Lee  narrates over clips of animals and their quirky behavior. Scenes include: * Kissing porcupines * A rabbit sent into space and returning with an alien wife and kids. * An orangutan that saws a hole in the ceiling of his cage to pull down a fridge full of food * A beaver literally "damming"  a river * A man who proclaims to an entertainment agent his dog can talk whereas all the dog's answers are "ruff", particularly for the answers to the top of a house , the owner's name  and the greatest baseball player . When the agent throws them out, the dog picks himself up, dusts himself off, and declares to his owner: "Maybe I should've said DiMaggio?" * A groundhog who uses advanced technology to predict the weather * A mouse that scares an elephant but is then scared by a tiny elephant  * A hen that lays cube-shaped eggs, to the chagrin of another hen  * A dog patiently waiting on the front porch for his master that hasn't been home in three years, then browbeats him when he finally returns at the cartoon's end . * The classic "trained pigeons" gag  in which the trainer's pigeons, when released from their cage, fly past the table of miniature obstacles and out the window. * A hospital room with a dog who, underneath his bandaged leg, has a cat latched on and won't let go * A chameleon that can blend into different unicolor screens but cannot bring himself to attempt a multi-color plaid screen:A cattle buyer, a federal agent and a newswoman become involved in a railroad plot against the backdrop of a rancher vs. homesteader war.The screen pans on the silhouette of a mighty Viking  arousing ferocious lightning storms, but then zooms in to reveal that it is only Elmer Fudd . Elmer sings his signature line "Be vewy qwiet, I'm hunting wabbits" , before arriving at Bugs Bunny's hole. We watch as Elmer jams his spear into Bugs's hole to "Kill the wabbit! Kill the wabbit! Kill the wabbit!" Bugs sticks his head out of another rabbit hole, and, apparently appalled, sings his signature line "What's up, doc?" to the theme of Siegfried's horn call from the Ring Cycle. He then taunts Elmer about his "spear and magic helmet". This prompts a display of Elmer-as-Siegfried's "mighty powers", set to the overture of The Flying Dutchman. At that, Bugs flees and the chase begins. Suddenly, Elmer is stopped in his tracks at the sight of the beautiful Valkyrie Brünnhilde , riding in grandly on an enormously fat horse . "Siegfried" and "Brünnhilde" exchange endearments, set to the "Pilgrims' Chorus" theme from Tannhäuser as orchestrated in the opera's overture. After the usual "hard to get" pursuit they perform a short ballet , capping it off with the duet "Return My Love" set to another section of the Tannhäuser overture. Bugs' true identity is suddenly exposed when his headdress falls off, enraging Elmer and prompting him to command fierce lightning, "typhoons, hurricanes, earthquakes" and, finally, "SMOG!!!" (a word Elmer screams which was not done by Bryan, but by BlancWhat's Opera, Doc? at the Internet Movie Database. Although Arthur Q. Bryan was the voice of Elmer at the time and performed the character for all but a single one-word line of the cartoon, Mel Blanc voiced the character for one word "SMOG!!!" because Blanc could scream the line better than Bryan. Blanc did not take over as the voice of Elmer until 1972; in the interim, [[Hal Smith  to "stwike da wabbit!" while music from The Valkyries plays in the background.  Eventually, the ensuing storm tears apart the mountains where Bugs has fled. Elmer triumphantly rushes to see his victory, but upon seeing the bunny's seemingly lifeless body, which is strangely intact, Elmer immediately regrets his wrath and tearfully carries the bunny off, presumably to Valhalla in keeping with the Wagnerian theme, per Act III of The Valkyries . Bugs suddenly raises his head to face the audience and remarks, "Well, what did you expect in an opera? A happy ending?", ironically undoing the intended sad conclusion. The Merrie Melodies end title card then appears with all the words already there. This cartoon marks one of only three times that Bugs Bunny is defeated by Fudd. The other two are Rabbit Rampage and Hare Brush. That is also the only one of the three where Fudd shows regret for defeating Bugs.The cat is fishing in a pond. The fish may not catch the hooks, since he is lacking a worm as bait. The cat searches for a worm. A worm is trying avoid Foghorn and is almost cornered by both Foghorn and the cat but both chasers run into each other. Foghorn scolds the cat for chasing after his food and pushes him around. To get Foghorn out of the way, the cat disguises one of his fingers as a worm and lures Foghorn so that his head is caught under a hole in the fence and a whirling wheel operated by a fan splashes paint on his face. The cat chases the worm around a tractor and tries to send him out of the fuel line by blowing through the exhaust tail. Foghorn shows up and starts the tractor putting a lot of smoke in the cat's mouth. The cat tries to grab an axe, but Foghorn snatches it off him. The cat spots the worm and chases him. The cat puts his finger down a hole, but the worm bites it. As the cat tries to blow out the worm with a pump, Foghorn once again interrupts him and pushes him around. As Foghorn tries to blow out the worm, the cat grabs the worm and begins to fish. The worm is about to do his part by force, when Foghorn comes out of the pond, takes the worm and yet again scolds and pushes the cat around. Foghorn decides to divide the worm into two halves, but the worm will not cooperate. As Foghorn scolds and pushes the cat around for the last time, the cat fed up with Foghorn's non-stop chatter, tells him to shut up and slams him to the ground. Foghorn still continues talking after the cat walks off.* Introduction: The Road Runner flips the title cards by passing across. The chase begins as normal, and is then paused for the Road Runner . The camera zooms back to the Coyote . The camera then zooms back to the Road Runner and the chase resumes. The camera now zooms out as Wile E. chases after the Road Runner with a knife and fork. The Coyote strikes - and misses, sticking the utensils into the road as the Road Runner moves into superspeed. Wile E, left suspended in the road, lets go of the fork and scratches his head, only to fall down. He slumps on the ground and soon comes up with a new plan.  The Coyote attaches a spring-activated boxing glove to a large rock and hides behind it, hoping to strike the Road Runner. However, the tension in the spring causes the rock and Wile E. to be launched backwards instead of the glove forwards. The glove then retracts backwards and punches the stunned Coyote in the face. Wile E.'s next plan is to traverse a tightwire and drop an anvil on the Road Runner, resulting in a "Road Runner Burger" as his drawing puts it. Obviously, the anvil is too heavy for the tightwire to handle, and Wile E. is stretched all the way to the ground and can be seen by the Road Runner, who taunts him before dashing off. Wile E. drops the anvil and is thus slung up into the air. Eventually, he peaks and falls downwards. Wile E. points expectantly at his backpack and pulls out a cord, hoping for a parachute; however, upon opening the pack, there is no parachute, simply common items like a hatchet and kitchen utensils. Wile E.'s expression darkens as he knows what will happen now, and he then pulls out a tablet of aspirin and takes one to alleviate the inevitable pain. He weakly waves at the camera as he takes the plunge. The Coyote then tries a new plan to explode the Road Runner with trickery: set out a water glass with two signs by it reading "Last Water for 300 MILES" and "Free Drink of Water". Of course, nothing provided by Wile E. Coyote is free. It comes with "strings attached", that is, a string to a TNT device, which, as he hopes, should eliminate the Road Runner. Wile E. hides as he hears the approaching Road Runner, who stops at the water stand, mockingly spits at it, and speeds behind the hiding Coyote with a tall, large sign that reads "ROAD RUNNERS CAN'T READ AND DON'T DRINK". The Coyote's expression turns from smug to incredulous to outraged in a matter of seconds. He chases the Road Runner into an Old Cactus Mine, but soon realizes he has no helmet or flashlight. He returns to the cap rack and dons a cap, and the Road Runner pulls up to him and provokes a chase through the mine. They chase in a straight line until the Road Runner loads himself into an elevator and speeds to safety. For this section of scene three, the camera cuts alternately to an actual-size view inside the mine and a Pac-Man style view. Their hats color-code the characters during the latter period: the Road Runner is green and the coyote is red. * Real time: The Coyote brakes before falling into the shaft and gets into another lift to the left. *Pac-Man: The Coyote's lift descends until he spots the Road Runner in another shaft to the right, and follows him through it. The Road Runner ascends a level, flies over a gap, and causes the coyote to pause, then to jump and hold onto... *Real time:...the edge of this tunnel, and then to disappear through that tunnel. *Pac-Man: The Road Runner continues running down a level and then back up the same way he came. *Real time: Wile E. is momentarily stalled by having to climb a ladder up the main shaft. *Pac-Man: The chase continues circling in this way and gets faster and faster until the Road Runner edges into the right shaft. The Coyote continues circling at ever-quicker speeds until the Road Runner beeps at him, which alerts him to continue the chase. Past this shaft is an up-and-down zigzag shaft; the Coyote and Road Runner follow this until the shaft changes into a straight tunnel to the right and one to the northeast. The Road Runner moves into the northeast tunnel, while the Coyote continues moving in the same pattern, bumping himself many times upon the ceiling and floor of the east shaft. Eventually, he knocks out his headlight. *Real time: Wile E. lights a match for light, but happens to be in an explosive-laden tunnel. The camera now cuts to above the surface. The explosion warps the cactuses currently on camera into the word "YIPE!". Back on the surface, Wile E. has loaded himself on a springboard in order to sling himself towards the passing Road Runner. When he cuts the rope holding him back, he is planted directly on the ground and the spring unfurls like a Slinky. The Coyote is now waiting for the Road Runner to make a turn so that he can chase him with an abstrusely designed rocket. He lights the fuse with perfect timing, but unfortunately, the rocket fires directly up into the sky and explodes into an EAT AT JOE'S sign. Now, Wile E. uses ACME's rocket-powered roller skates to prepare for the chase, which the Road Runner promptly begins by pulling up to the Coyote. The rocket thrust almost unseats the Coyote, but he manages to lift his midsection to normal height and begin a very promising chase. When the road takes a turn, however, the Coyote is catapulted off the end, his rear is bumped against the tops of several buttes, and he is then plopped on top of a high plateau. The skates are still functioning, and the jet blasts eventually join forces and continue to rush the Coyote forward. Wile E. is then thrown up into the sky, where the skates tucker out. The Coyote, knowing about the adverse effects of gravity on him, begins to pray then pulls out a wreath with R.I.P. on it as he falls into the ground. Wile E. climbs out of the hole he makes exhausted, and soon spots his "Free Drink of Water" trap set earlier in the cartoon. As he is thirsty, he lifts the glass and gets blown up. The fully recovered Coyote places a small railroad track, two bushes, himself, and a "R.R. STOP" sign in the middle of the road. This fails to stop the Road Runner, who mows down the Coyote and leaves him spread-eagled on the track to be flattened again by a train passing through additional tracks mysteriously set up. The Road Runner relaxes on the balcony of the caboose, with a "THE END" sign attached to the back of the caboose. That's All Folks!After listening to one of his favorite radio programs, Porky Pig receives a grand prize from the station. Out of the gift box pops Daffy Duck, who insists on living in Porky's house. After numerous attempts to throw Daffy out of the house, Daffy devises a plan to stay. He tells Porky that he has a split personality  When people treat him badly, he turns into a hideous monster, which he does by messing his hair up and putting in fangs, whereas when treated with kindness he becomes sweet and cuddly. When Porky realizes he's been had , he now has to outsmart this psychotic duck and get him out of the house by dressing up as a monster. When Daffy sees the monster, he becomes so scared, he falls apart  and runs out of the house screaming . When Porky accidentally sees himself in the mirror in his monster costume , he scares himself so much that he jumps onto a chandelier .In the opening scene, Granny and Tweety are happily piloting a rented tugboat in a harbor, singing a kiddie-song duet about the carefree joys of their activity. It is the only scene in which Granny appears, as the rest of the cartoon is devoted to Sylvester's latest attempts to catch and eat Tweety, which begins when, after failing to grab a fish by hiding in a fisherman's basket,  he sees the boat carrying the canary chug past. Sylvester's attempts, all unsuccessful, include the following: * Using a rowboat to get to the tug. Tweety drops anchor in the boat's hull, sinking Sylvester . * Using an inflatable raft, which is deflated by a dart thrown be Tweety . * Two attempts at jumping off the bridge. The first jump is mistimed, as Sylvester lands in the smokestack, leaving him with his rear end on fire. A follow-up attempt from another bridge to parachute onto the boat's deck  results in a jammed pack, which only opens after Sylvester sinks to the bottom of the canal . * Using a snorkel to swim to the boat. A seagull finds Sylvester's pipe the perfect resting place ; gasping for air, the cat rushes back to shore, where he finds the seagull laid an egg in his mouth. The frightened gull flees as Sylvester angrily throws the egg at it; he misses and the egg hits him in the face. * Driving a motorboat, but Sylvester drives instead into the rapids and over a waterfall. All the time, the motor fails to start, and when it does, Sylvester pounds it to submission. * A lasso , which instead grabs the antenna of a speedboat. Sylvester decides to show off several waterskiing tricks ... until the inattentive puddy smashes into a pole. As he floats upside-down, a fish gurgles Tweety's signature line: "I tawt I taw a puddy tat."While happily roller skating, Woody gets bullied by an angry Buzz Buzzard  who has just avoided being served a summons. Thinking the woodpecker might want to seek mild revenge on Buzz, law officer I. Gypem  tells Woody he will pay him a dollar to serve Buzz with the summons.  Woody happily accepts the offer from Gypem, but Buzz manages to stop all attempts at delivering the summons. Woody then stumbles on a book about hypnotism, which declares: "Influence others and be their master." Woody reads the book cover to cover, and then decides to "practice" his newly acquired skill on Buzz. At first, he has some fun by putting the reluctant buzzard to sleep. Then, Woody turns him into a dog, a monkey, and appropriately enough, a woodpecker. Finally, Woody blindfolds himself, begins walking on a skyscraper skeleton and tells Buzz , "I am your master. You must protect me at all times." The two encounter several death defying close calls before Woody manages to secure Buzz and escort him to I. Gypem's office. Supposedly thankful, Gypem has the audacity to serve Woody with a summons, accusing the woodpecker of "practicing hypnotism out of season." Incensed, Woody hypnotizes Buzz into thinking he is a hungry giant and Gypem is a tasty ham sandwich.Woody is a street sweeper and gets into trouble with Officer Wally Walrus. He tries to get even for Wally throwing a banana peel on the sidewalk. He steals the cop's uniform and gets into the Jingling Bros. Circus because he is wearing it. Wally tries to get in, but he gets thrown out. He sneaks in under a tent, and Woody gives him a merry chase. Wally disguises himself as an elephant to catch the bird.Essentially a remake of 1949's Señor Droopy, but taking in a medieval setting rather than the country of Mexico, One Droopy Knight casts Droopy and his rival Spike as medieval knights out to slay a dragon and win the hand of a beautiful human princess. However, the dragon considers both as nothing more than minor nuisances. Droopy though, takes more chances to slay the dragon, but it thinks Droopy is small and harmless. Meanwhile, Spike is being foiled after being molded into a metal can. Droopy however, bangs a mace on the dragon's tail and says,"Take that you no good dragon!" Once again the dragon single-handedly flicks Droopy away. Spike comes back riding on a steed. Suddenly, the dragon blows fire on Spike and the horse, leaving them naked. Spike gives up and goes away, while Droopy stands and cries looking at a picture of the princess. The dragon draws a French moustache on the photo and laughs outrageously. Droopy calmly gets mad and says one of his catchphrases,"You know what? That makes me mad." Then he beats up the dragon and wins the heart of the princess.{{plot}} Watching TV, Daffy Duck is excited by a hunting show called the QTTV Sportsman Hour that offers $1,000.00 for the first viewer to bring a rabbit to Station QTTV. Attempting to convince Bugs Bunny to come to the station, Daffy first tries a ruse with TV show tickets, but Bugs immediately suspects Daffy is up to no good and declines. Daffy then grabs a gun from Bugs' fireplace and tells Bugs to oblige or be shot. At the scene of Station QTTV [whose exterior bears more than a passing resemblance to CBS Television City in Hollywood and housed Station KTTV], Daffy has Bugs at gunpoint when they see a parade of prizes coming out of a studio , and they see people going into the show "People Are Phoney" starring Art Lamplighter . With dollar signs in his eyes, Daffy locks Bugs in a telephone booth and runs into the studio. Bugs receives a call in the telephone booth from an announcer who tells Bugs if he correctly answers a question, he will win a jackpot. Bugs answers the math question and the jackpot dispenses through the coin return slot. The announcer then asks Bugs how he knew the answer so quickly. Bugs says: "One thing we rabbits know how to do is multiply." Meanwhile, Daffy appears as a contestant on "People Are Phoney", where his task is to help a little old lady across the street while on camera. Things backfire in a hurry when the old lady  starts belting Daffy with her umbrella, belligerently declaring she doesn't need help crossing the street. Daffy staggers, is missed by a speeding truck , then gets hit by a motorcycle. Art Lamplighter tells the hysterical audience that Daffy didn't quite make it, and it goes to show that "People Are Phoney". Sorely mad, Daffy comes back to the telephone booth where Bugs is counting the jackpot. Bugs says he got a call in the phone booth, which Daffy doesn't believe. Bugs says at any time now an announcer might call again. Bugs makes the sound of a ringing phone and cons Daffy into thinking they want another contestant. Daffy pushes Bugs out of the booth, telling Bugs to let him have it. Daffy grabs the "receiver" - now a stick of dynamite - and it explodes as Bugs walks away. He shrug: "So I let him have it." Looking for Bugs, Daffy asks a studio usher  if he saw a rabbit. Bugs points him to a door, and Daffy is sent to the show "Were You There" (a takeoff of the show [[You Are There  which happens to be depicting "Indian Massacre At Burton's Bend". Daffy then comes out with his head scalped {"All right, where's the wise guy?" he mutters, slapping his scalp back onto his head}. At the end, Bugs is disguised as a producer and he tells Daffy that he's suddenly wanted for "Costume Party" , tricking him into donning a rabbit costume. The show he is sent to is the QTTV Sportsman Hour to which Daffy intended to bring Bugs, and Bugs collects the fee Daffy wanted for himself. When Daffy protests that he is no rabbit but a duck, the host declares it is now duck season, and a bunch of hunters shoot at Daffy. Bugs shrugs off Daffy's plight, noting: "Eh, they always shoot blanks on TV," Daffy, his beak full of bullet holes, mutters: "'Blanks', he says." Emptying a stack of buckshot from his mouth, he offers them to Bugs: "Have a handful of blanks! Sheesh!"On Christmas morning 1909, Jim Dear gives his wife Darling a cocker spaniel puppy that they name Lady. Lady enjoys a happy life with the couple and with a pair of dogs from the neighborhood, a Scottish Terrier named Jock and a bloodhound named Trusty. Meanwhile, across town by the railway, a stray mutt, referred to as The Tramp, lives life from moment to moment, be it begging for scraps from the local Italian restaurant or protecting his fellow strays Peg  and Bull  from the local dog catcher. Later, Lady is saddened after Jim Dear and Darling begin treating her rather coldly. Jock and Trusty visit her, and determine that the change in behavior is due to Darling expecting a baby. While Jock and Trusty try to explain what a baby is, Tramp offers his own thoughts on the matter: "Just a cute little bundle of trouble". Jock and Trusty take an immediate dislike to the stray and order him out of the yard. As Tramp leaves, he reminds Lady that "when the baby moves in, the dog moves out". Eventually, the baby arrives and Jim Dear and Darling introduce Lady to the infant, to whom Lady grows fond. Soon after, the two decide to go on a trip together, leaving their Aunt Sarah to look after the baby and the house. Aunt Sarah, however, dislikes dogs, refusing to let Lady near the baby. When Lady clashes with Aunt Sarah's two trouble-making Siamese cats, Si and Am, she takes Lady to a pet shop to get a muzzle. Lady flees, but is pursued by some street dogs. After the Tramp rescues Lady, the two visit a local zoo, where Tramp tricks a beaver into removing the muzzle. Later, Tramp shows Lady how he lives "footloose and collar-free", eventually leading into a candlelit Italian dinner. Lady begins to fall in love with Tramp, and the two spend the night together on a hilltop in the park. As Tramp escorts Lady back home the next day, Tramp stirs up trouble in a chicken coop. As the two dogs flee, Lady is caught by the dog-catcher. At the pound, the other dogs admire Lady's license, as it is her way out of the pound. Soon the dogs reveal the Tramp's many girlfriends and how he is unlikely to ever settle down. Eventually, Lady is collected by Aunt Sarah and is chained to the backyard doghouse. Jock and Trusty visit to comfort her, but when Tramp arrives to apologize, thunder starts to rumble as Lady angrily confronts him about his past girlfriends and failure to rescue her, after which Tramp leaves. Moments later, as it starts to rain, Lady sees a rat trying to sneak into the house with the apparent intention of harming the baby. Lady barks frantically, but Aunt Sarah tells her to be quiet. Tramp hears her and runs back to help. Tramp enters the house and confronts the rat in the nursery. Lady breaks free and races to the nursery to find the rat on the baby's crib. Tramp manages to kill the rat in battle, but knocks over the crib in the process, awakening the infant. When Aunt Sarah comes to the baby's aid, she sees the two dogs and thinks they are responsible. She forces Tramp into a closet and Lady into the basement, then calls the pound to take Tramp away. Jim Dear and Darling return as the dogcatcher departs. They release Lady, who leads them and Aunt Sarah to the dead rat, vindicating Tramp. Overhearing everything and realizing Tramp's intentions, Jock and Trusty chase after the dogcatcher's wagon. Jock is convinced Trusty has long since lost his sense of smell, but the old bloodhound is able to find the wagon. They bark at the horses, who rear up and topple the wagon onto a utility pole. Jim Dear arrives in a taxi with Lady, and Lady reunites with Tramp. However, Trusty is injured in the struggle and Jock howls in sorrow. That Christmas, Tramp, now a part of Lady's family, has his own collar and license. Aunt Sarah has also reconciled with Lady by sending her a box of dog biscuits. Lady and Tramp raise four puppies together: three resemble Lady  and the other resembles Tramp . Jock comes to see the family along with Trusty, who is carefully walking on his still-mending leg.Sach develops an uncanny ability to sing, after having his tonsils removed, and Slip convinces Louie to turn his sweet shop into a night club, The Bowery Palace, after unsuccessfully trying to get Sach a singing job at a neighboring club, The Rio Cabana. After Sach's singing makes him a star, Rick Martin ([[Craig Stevens , the owner of the now-rival club, tries to hire him away but is unsuccessful. Rick gets his lady friend, Lola , to get Sach to sign a contract with him, using the pretense that she is asking for his autograph. Rick then goes after the Bowery Palace's other star, Sally Dolan . She, however, does not want to go because Rick is after more than just her singing talent. She tips off Lola about what Rick is up to and Lola agrees to testify that Sach's signature was just an autograph and not a signed contract, thereby allowing him to return to the Bowery Palace. However, by this time Sach has gone to a doctor to help cure the "tickle in his throat' and he has lost the ability to sing.It deals with Daffy the corrupt innkeeper requiring only a dime from Porky to stay at his motel initially. He then proceeds to send various animals up to disturb Porky's sleep and he makes Porky pay a certain amount of money to get rid of them, and he slowly tries to increase the fees as each new animal causes problems. It initially starts with a mouse eating celery and disrupting Porky's sleep. From there it slowly works its way up to a cat that refuses to leave the bed, a boxer dog that repeatedly punches Porky, a lion that tries to eat him, and finally to an elephant that engulfs the whole room. Eventually Porky gets tired of it and decides to leave without paying Daffy the initial fee. Daffy holds Porky's luggage, which has some explosive in it that Porky sets off shortly after Daffy walks inside the motel. Just as Porky departs, the motel explodes and has to be closed for renovation. The short ends with Daffy running out of the now-ruined motel and running away shouting in pain as his tail feathers are on fire.Bugs comes out of his rabbit hole in a city park every morning because a kind gentleman  keeps coming to feed him a carrot . At first feigning a usual rabbit posture, Bugs eventually stands up and confides that he'd rather simply go home with the gentleman as a "pet," since it would be easier on both of them. As the gentleman brings Bugs home, he remarks that it is strange that Bugs calls him "Doc" because "I happen to be a doctor." The camera then pans up to see that the name above the apartment is none other than Dr. Jekyll. Inside the house, Bugs gets used to his new surroundings. Dr. Jekyll comes across a bubbling potion that he knows he shouldn't drink, but he gives in  and drinks the potion anyway. He then transforms into Mr. Hyde, with a monstrous green face and glowing red eyes. Bugs tries running from this monster, but soon the monster reverts back to Dr. Jekyll. Bugs, thinking that the monster is still after both of them, tries leading the doctor into various rooms and closets, with the eventual re-transformation of the doctor into Mr. Hyde. This continues for a few minutes, until Dr. Jekyll decides that he's going to pour the rest of the formula down the drain. He goes into his lab, but finds only the empty beaker. The Doctor asks Bugs if he drank the potion; Bugs becomes insulted at the idea and leaves . Walking back to his park, Bugs transforms into a monstrous green rabbit . The people at the park who are busy feeding the pigeons see Bugs and run away screaming. Bugs looks at them and wonders: "Now what's eating THEM? Hmph! You'd think they never saw a rabbit before!" After Bugs Bunny says his last lines, he eats a carrot and watches the old ladies and old man run away as the screen closes.{{Plot}} Jerry prances into his home inside the Cabinet radio and hangs up his hat. He pokes himself out of the flap and turns on a loud music tune. Tom enters, sits down and reads a newspaper, but the music makes Tom turn off the radio. Jerry is inside, irritated that this action removes all the light from the tubes inside the radio, and he turns the radio back on. Tom's head throbs from the loudness. Jerry and Tom then proceed to toggle the radio on and off until Tom hides behind the radio when Jerry turns it on, and then Tom pulls the plug. Jerry peeps out and attempts to turn the radio on, but fails. Before Tom can quell the radio again, a news bulletin announces on loose that there is a dancing bear, who dances down the street, stumbles by Tom and Jerry's house, spots fruit on a nearby table and munches on them. Tom spots the bear and extends his arm stealthily across the room and grabs the phone to call the cops.  Jerry, meanwhile, plugs back in the radio. The bear then jumps into the house, grabs Tom before he can begin to call, and starts up a dance. Jerry looks astounded and sees this is a great opportunity to play with the cat. As the bear dances past the radio, Tom turns it off. The bear stares blankly at the cat, then drops him and resumes eating the fruit. Tom again attempts to use the phone, but Jerry is ready to turn the radio back on. Tom grabs the mouse, but the station button is still within reach and soon the cat is dragged across the floor by the bear. Tom then stuffs the bear into a closet, cuts the plug, and chases the mouse. Jerry escapes the cat and hides in a full automatic record player. Tom cannot see him. Jerry plays a classical-music record. The bear breaks out of the closet when he hears the music, takes the door with him and runs right into the cat. Both cat and bear have their hands poked through a hole in the door and thus the bear can begin a tango dance . Tom recovers and knocks on his side of the door. The bear closes the door on him and pushes Tom into a grandfather clock. He wonders where the cat may have gone and then he grabs the door. However, Tom takes the place of the pendulum inside while the bear continues the tango alone. Tom spots the mouse waltzing by himself on top of the record player and breaks the record over Jerry's head. The chase resumes briefly until Jerry jumps on a piano and starts playing The Blue Danube. Tom then flees, but is soon met by the bear. Tom grabs a scraper and hits the mouse off the piano with it as he is passing by. Jerry lands on top of an ukulele and plays a jazz rhythm. Tom then tricks the bear into dancing right through the floor grate, and he breaks the ukulele while Jerry is playing. Jerry turns on a small portable radio and a second bulletin plays announcing a larger reward for the dancing bear.  Tom tries yet again to use the phone, but is interrupted by the music from the small radio. Tom dives through the various floor grates and then traps the bear in a folding couch. Tom chases Jerry outside, catches him, and takes the radio. He throws it into the air, but it slides across a branch and clicks on against an offshoot. Tom is shocked in bitterness when he hears that the music will continue for six hours and the bear asks him for a dance. To finish his reasons, he accepts it and lets Jerry escape. Tom dances with the bear in the moon. Then the animators grow black bars as the screen gets smaller. "THE END" then fades in near the moon.Spike is teaching Tyke the three important rules of being a dog. Observing Tom chasing Jerry and waiting by Jerry's mouse hole, Spike has the perfect cat to chase in, Tom. He sneaks up behind Tom and barks ferociously. Tom is quite literally frightened out of his skin. Spike accosts Tom and gives him a stern, but more friendly than usual, warning. Thus, Tom's instructions are to start climbing the nearest tree once Tyke starts barking, in order to give the little pup some self esteem, but Spike throws him up the tree and falls in a branch in pain. However, Jerry is eavesdropping on the conversation, and both Jerry and Tyke take it in turns to bark at Tom. Tom gets Jerry and whistles, Tyke appears and barks at Tom. No results, Jerry bites Tom's thumb causing him to scream. Tom  is about to kick Tyke until Spike appears , so Tom puts Tyke down and climbs up the tree. Jerry barks at Tom and Tom speeds up. He comes at the tree, with long necked and he escapes. Tyke finds Tom, again. He bites his tail and Tom puts him at the bucket. He hides behind the bush and goes inside. Tom gets a cloth that looks like his tail and ties it into a flagpole. When Tyke bites it, he was sent into the flagpole, while pulling him up, his tongue is out and runs away. Tyke yelps for help until Spike arrives. Spike calls on Tyke to check if he is all right. When Tyke barks for help, he falls down on top of Spike, who he comes to the  conclusion that Tom is responsible for Tyke as he becomes angry. Spike paints the flagpole with grease and barks at Tom who begins climbing up the flagpole. However, the grease slows him down, causing him to struggle. Spike then allows Tyke to bark in his place while Tom continues trying to climb the flagpole. By nighttime, Tyke is still barking away and Tom is still climbing in fear, while Spike says, "that's my boy doing' that". And Spike is napping at the doghouse and Jerry.Introduction: Like all Sam Sheepdog and Ralph Wolf shorts, this one revolves around Ralph Wolf trying to steal the sheep which Sam Sheepdog is guarding. 1. As in the previous two shorts, Ralph attempts to steal some sheep by burrowing under the field. After finding Sam waiting for Ralph above one of his holes, Ralph attempts to look innocuous, but Sam hits him over the head with a large wooden mallet . As in previous shorts, Ralph politely refills his tunnel. 2. Ralph next attempts to fashion himself a tightrope over the field by throwing a spear with a rope attached to a tree on the other side of the field. After walking across the tightrope and snagging a sheep with a lasso, he makes his way back to the cliff where the other end of the tightrope was fastened. Unfortunately, it turns out Sam is holding that end of the tightrope. Ralph hands the sheep over and begins running the other direction before Sam releases his end of the tightrope. Just before Ralph begins to fall, he manages to grab on to the spear that was attached to the tree. However, as Ralph looks to the left, it turns out Sam is also holding that end of the tightrope. Sam launches the spear &mdash; and Ralph &mdash; over the horizon. 3. Ralph next attempts to shoot a rocket with a lasso attached at Sam. The contraption very successfully catches Sam and carries him off into the distance. Ralph, enamoured with his success, prances down to the field and casually takes his choice of sheep. As he prances away he is hit over the head with a club from Sam, still hanging from the fired rocket now lodged in a tree.  4. Ralph's next plan is to disguise himself as Little Bo Peep. He prances up to Sam and shows him a book of nursery rhymes to bolster his disguise. He successfully herds a sheep past Sam and into his cave. However, the viewer soon discovers that the sheep is actually Sam in disguise. Ralph discovers this all too late, and the beating which ensues is left to the viewer's imagination. 5. Ralph's fifth plan is to fly over the field with an unwieldy helicopter while dangling a claw on a rope and attempting to grab a sheep with the claw, akin to the claw game. Sam casually walks by a yanks on the rope, causing the helicopter to plummet into the ground. After the crash, and much too late, Ralph deliriously attempts to abandon the helicopter and release his parachute, which simply falls on top of him as a shroud. 6. Ralph then attempts to hurl himself over Sam with a lever and a large stone. While successful, Ralph ends up hurling himself into a tree. Sam, sitting at the bottom of the tree, rolls Ralph up into a ball and tosses him over his shoulder, to the sound of bowling pins falling. 7. Ralph next attempts to roll a lit cannon behind Sam's back, but Sam simply flips the cannon around so it faces Ralph. As Ralph runs away, the cannon ball lands exactly where Ralph ended up running. 8. Finally, Ralph is sitting in his cave, depressed, and notices the rain outside, when an idea strikes him. He sneaks up behind Sam with a bottle of "Acme Patented Hair Grower " and splashes some on Sam's head, who doesn't notice because of the rain. When the rain clears up, Sam has even more hair in front of his eyes than usual . Ralph tests to make sure Sam can't see him through the unruly mop of hair on his head and then heads down to grab a sheep. However, the moment Ralph lays a finger on the sheep, Sam hurtles down the hill to grab Ralph and pummel him. During the pummelling, the punch clock whistles the end of their shifts. Sam and Ralph punch out, then cordially bid each other a good night.Sach convinces Louie to rent the back room of the sweet shop to a professor. Meanwhile Slip is preoccupied with entering their car in an auto race to raise enough money to help Louie pay his bills. They don't have any luck with the car until Sach invents a formula that makes the car go faster. A crooked gambler tries to steal the formula from them, with no luck. Slip enters into another race, but has to start the race without the formula in the car as Sach was making another batch. When Sach reaches him in the middle of the race and puts the formula in the gas tank the cars begins to accelerate...only in reverse! Sach and Slip then continue the race in reverse and wind up winning. Sach then realizes why the formula didn't work as it did before...the seltzer that he added to the formula was flat!The cartoon, set in a city zoo, begins with a tour guide showing various animal exhibits to visitors. The final stop  is the exhibit featuring the "one and only example" of the Tweety Bird species. This draws tag-along tourist Sylvester's interest. After the requisite "I tawt I taw a puddy tat" lines, Sylvester begins his latest pursuit. The attempts, all unsuccessful, are as follows: * Tweety taking refuge in the bear cage. Sylvester uses a net to try to capture the bird, but as the shifty Tweety dodges the net, the cat hits a bear. The bear grabs the net, pulls Sylvester in and expresses his displeasure. * At feeding time, Sylvester hides in the zookeeper's meat cart. Hoping to get "fed" to Tweety, he instead is thrown to a pack of Bengal tigers. * Tweety hides in a hole inside the elephant's abode. Sylvester enters in search of his prey, but the elephant immediately covers the hole to protect the bird. Sylvester uses a wind-up mouse to frighten the pachyderm, but instead of simply moving away, the elephant inadvertently jumps and lands on the cat, flattening the puddy. * Sylvester catches Tweety walking along a bridge, and chases him into a pond, which is full of alligators. While planning how to get in the pond without injury, a lion roars, scaring Sylvester. Sylvester smashes an oar over the lion's head in anger, using the requisite "Ah, shaddap!". * In a second attempt to navigate the alligator pond, Sylvester uses a rowboat ... unaware of his passenger, the lion from earlier has entered. However, the boat sinks under the lion's weight, and the alligators snap at the lion. Once the lion regains his senses, he grabs Sylvester  and, after letting the gators have another go at the cat, he kicks him into the bear's cage, where the bear mauls the puddy again. * Sylvester pole-vaulting across the alligator pond to grab Tweety, who is hiding in a tree. Instead, the jump is mistimed  and the gators enjoy dinner. In the end, a frustrated Sylvester leaves the zoo and strikes birds off his diet list ... just before a cluster of birds land on his shoulders and head as he is walking away, muttering about his awful timing for going on a diet.The opening frame depicts the exterior of Bugs' dressing room, inside which he is talking to the journalist, Lolly , about his great film career, albeit rather modestly .{{Or}} Outside of Bugs' room, lowly Warners studio janitor Daffy  eavesdrops on Bugs' conversation and is disgusted (. "Listen to that ham [Bugs] putting it on," he snarls. "If a long eared rabbit can be a star, so can a duck!" Daffy then marches into the casting director's  office just as he is on the phone with another executive discussing the difficulty in finding anyone "stupid enough" to be Bugs' stunt double for his next picture. "Hang up," Daffy triumphantly tells the boss, who in a low voice tells his colleague on the phone, "I think I've found a pigeon." Daffy hears that comment and tells the boss that, "I'm a duck. D-U-K, duck. Loaded with talent." The boss grants Daffy the role without elaborating about its stunt double status. After a visit to the Make-Up Department, Daffy gets his first taste of on-the-set film action shortly thereafter  Bugs walks onto the set when the director says “Rrrroll 'em” in a German accent . Customary carrot in hand, Bugs says his catch phrase: “Eh, what's up, Doc?” to which Sam growls: “All right, rabbit! Say your prayers! I'm a-gonna blast ya!” However, right at this moment, the director announces “Cut! Brrring in the double!” Initially, Daffy is extremely excited to be finally in any motion picture. He takes Bugs' place in a rabbit costume and holding a carrot, and stands next to Sam, whereupon they repeat the “What's up Doc?” / “I'm a-gonna blast ya!” exchange &mdash; only the director doesn't announce “Cut!” again. Instead, he lets Daffy continue the picture; he forgets his next line and has to look back at his script to see that it's “I dare you!” Sam shoots Daffy in the face; a large number of his feathers, as well as his beak, fall off. Daffy quickly hollers for “MAKE-UP!” Next, Bugs is in a scene where Elmer Fudd is cast in his usual role as trying to hunt Bugs. Bugs is high in a tree, and Elmer is supposed to climb it to saw the branch Bugs is sitting on, off . However, Daffy has other ideas. He tells Elmer to come closer to him, as he has something to tell him. Lacking a clue to Daffy's actual motive, Elmer shuffles closer to Daffy, who whacks him in the head to knock him out. Daffy dresses up like Elmer and grabs his saw. When the director says, “Camera ... ACTION!” Bugs responds by telling "Elmer", “Remember Elmer you are not supposed to cut all the way through.” However, with a maliciously insane laugh, not Elmer but Daffy climbs the tree and jeers, “You're gonna be a FALLING star,” and saws right through the limb. However, unbeknownst to the greedy duck, Bugs was safe all along; his limb was attached to a telephone pole, so the rest of the tree comes crashing down. The director says "Ok, Print it!" despite the complications. After this sequence, Bugs is fishing off a pier. Daffy shows up and snaps “AHA! Tryin' to hog all the easy scenes for yourself, eh? I'LL handle this one.” Bugs protests, but Daffy takes no notice . He also takes Bugs' place at the end of the pier and his fishing rod. Yet he is not safe from the film script even now, as a giant bluefin tuna swallows him whole. After a long struggle, Daffy frees himself and shouts “MAKE-UP!” again. Another scene wherein Bugs is chased by Elmer follows this one, culminating when Bugs dives into another tree. With the "scwewy wabbit" cornered, Elmer aims his gun into the tree but gets poked in the rear by the gun's barrel . When Elmer pulls his gun back, the other one makes the same movements. Wondering just how stupid Elmer is, Daffy furiously marches onto the set, snatches Elmer's gun and shoves him off. Daffy sticks the gun into the hole in the tree in which Bugs is hiding &mdash; but what he believes to be another gun  sticks up through a hole in the ground just behind him! Daffy retracts his gun; the “other” gun does the same. Daffy does this two or three more times before he decides to try a small experiment. He ties a red ribbon around the barrel of his gun, then sticks it into the tree, and looks behind him. The ribbon on the gun in the ground is white with red polka dots, leading Daffy to believe it to be a fake. He shoots, intending to mark Bugs, but the bent-around gun plan is revealed when the bullet hits him in the hindquarters and he pulls the gun out of the tree. The ribbon is white with red spots! Daffy didn't see Bugs switch the ribbon. Daffy yells “MAKE-UP!” The next scene has Bugs piloting a plane accelerating up to 20,000 feet, then going uncontrollably in the direction of the ground. Just as Daffy, dressed in his rabbit suit, jokes about not looking at Bugs' demise, the director screams “CUT!” and the plane halts, seemingly a few feet from crashing into the ground. The director calls for "the double" one more time. Daffy  is helicoptered onto the scene, where he and Bugs switch places. After the director yells “Rrrroll 'em,” the plane resumes its super-high-speed course into the ground. Predictably, it's wrecked, and Daffy again yells “MAKE-UP!” for the fourth time. Having finally had more than enough, Daffy announces that “I'm through playin' stooge to a rabbit. I wanted to star in my own picture!” to the casting director, who promptly tells the distraught coal-coloured waterfowl that he has just such a script: the starring role in a new movie called The Duck. The final scene shows the filming of The Duck, with Daffy starring as a typical duck in a peaceful pond and directed by the same man who helmed the earlier movie wherein Daffy subbed for Bugs. Just as in the first scene of the earlier film, Daffy digs out his script to rehearse his line. When the director announces "Rrrroll 'em," Daffy says, "I wonder where all the hunters are today?”, at which point ten hunters suddenly surround the pond, gun Daffy down and leave. Again infuriated, Daffy shrieks: “I DEMAND TO KNOW WHO WROTE THIS SCRIPT!” The cruel screenwriter turns out to be none other than... Bugs, to whom the camera is now transferred and who says: “I'd love to tell him, but... hehehehe... modesty forbids.” Iris out.The story begins much like the classic fairy tale, with Red Riding Hood off to see her grandmother, who lives in the woods. The present she plans to bring her grandmother is Tweety . Sylvester sees Red's cargo and immediately begins going after her, his primary interest being Tweety. Red boards the bus, but Sylvester continues after her as it drives into the woods, the inattentive cat striking a road sign along the way. In the woods, the Big Bad Wolf — rougher looking in appearance than in later shorts — waits for Red to come by. A sign announces who Big Bad is, much to his disgust. Sylvester overhears the requisite exchange of Big Bad asking Red where she is headed and soon joins Big Bad in trying to reach Granny's house first. Big Bad ousts Granny from the house, to which she immediately swears revenge . Big Bad and Sylvester hurriedly dress in Granny's clothing in anticipation of Red's arrival. Big Bad takes his place in the bed after shooing Sylvester underneath. Once Red arrives and presents "Grandma" with Tweety, she sets it down as asked; Sylvester immediately approaches the cage, prompting Tweety to ask: "Hewwo, Wittle Wed Widing Hood's Gwandma! Whatcha doin' under da bed?" After the signature exchange ending with "The better to see, smell, and eat you with," and each character's realization of their sworn enemy , the chase begins. After several back-and-forth chases, with Big Bad and Sylvester getting the worse end of things, Red and Tweety flee Granny's home and head for the nearest bus stop. Their pursuers chase after the bus and immediately board at the next stop, only to be forcibly ejected by none other than Granny, who then shouts, "I told them, one of these days...!" Red and Tweety supply the rest of the line: "Pow! Right/wight in the kisser!" The screen irises out.With baseball's Pittsburgh Pirates in last place , their combative, foul-mouthed manager Guffy McGovern has plenty to complain about. All this changes when, while wandering through Forbes Field in search of his good luck charm one night, Guffy is accosted by the voice of an angel , who hints at having been a ballplayer during his earthly life. As the spokes-angel for the Heavenly Choir Nine, a celestial team of deceased ballplayers, he begins bestowing "miracles" upon the Pirates—but only on the condition that McGovern put a moratorium on swearing and fighting. With the help of the invisible ghosts of past baseball greats, the Pirates make it into the pennant race. During a game, 8-year-old orphan Bridget White insists that she can see the angels helping out the "live" ballplayers—understandably so, since it was Bridget's prayers to the Archangel Gabriel that prompted the angel to visit McGovern in the first place. Local newspaper reporter and former "household hints" writer Jennifer Paige inadvertently transforms Bridget's angelic visions into a nationwide news story, causing McGovern no end of trouble. After Guffy is beaned during a game and himself confirms Bridget's claims, he falls into the hands of vengeful sportscaster Fred Bayles, who has been scheming to have McGovern thrown out of baseball and persuades the Commissioner of Baseball to investigate McGovern's fitness as a manager. Complication piles upon complication until the pennant-deciding game, wherein Guffy is forced to rely exclusively upon the talents of his ballplayers—notably "over the hill" pitcher Saul Hellman . Guffy also wins over Jennifer, and they plan to adopt young Bridget. The angels themselves are never actually seen by the viewing audience, just the effects of their presence—a feather dropping, or someone being jostled from time to time. The angel who talks to Guffy never reveals who he was in life. It being a time when profanity was never used in films, the "swearing" uttered by Guffy is audio gibberish, scrambled recordings of his own voice.The cartoon, loosely based on Mark Twain's A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, begins with Bugs Bunny reading a book on the Knights of the Round Table under a hairdryer. While reading, an apple falls and hits his head and he is somehow transported to the time of King Arthur. When he wakes up, he finds himself at the pointy end of a knight's lance. Bugs asks him: "What's up, Duke?" and the knight commands Bugs to surrender as prisoner of his lance. The knight identifies himself as "Sir O of Kay, Earl of Watercress, Sir Osis of The Liver, Knight of the Garter, and Baron of Wooster-cester-shister-shyster-schuster-shister-sister-shire...sher." Ready to take Bugs' challenge to tilt with him for the insult of Bugs' friends Duke of Ellington, Count of Basie, Earl of Hines, Cab of Calloway and Satchmo of Armstrong after Bugs peers down into the knight's helmet, who are called "upstarts and rogues", the knight offers Bugs a too heavy sword, then begins to charge at him, during several comedic attempts by Bugs to get the sword off the ground. At the last second, Bugs puts his leg out tripping the knight's horse. The horse falls and the knight pole vaults on his lance over the castle wall and into a high window of a castle tower, falling loudly to the bottom inside the tower. Bugs is later chased by a fire-breathing dragon. He manages to defeat it by spraying seltzer into the dragon's mouth. With its fire lost, the powerless dragon whimpers and flees. Bugs later goes to another castle, the residence of a warlock named Merlin of Monroe. Merlin changes Bugs into a pig with some "magic powder" -but Bugs simply unzips the "costume" into his normal self. He later tricks the warlock into becoming a donkey. Merlin tries to change himself back to normal by also "unzipping" - but ends up with the same donkey appearance, no matter how many times he unzips the costume. To try to return to the present, Bugs Bunny throws an apple in the air to hit him on the head: . He is successful in this attempt, and walks down the country road, thinking that his adventure was just a dream...until he hears a farmer calling his donkey "Merlin".
