Macedonian Bloody Wedding
Македонска крвава свадба
Makedonska krvava svadba
Directed by Trajče Popov
Written by Slavko Janevski
Starring Kole Angelovski
Vera Čukić
Zvezda Angelovska
Dragomir Felba
Zafir Hadžimanov
Dragi Kostovski
Petre Prilčko
Risto Šiškov
Janez Vrhovec
Pavle Vuisić
Edited by Vangel Laki Čemčev
Music by Kiril Makedonski
Distributed by Vardar Film
Release date 1 January 1967
Running time 102 minutes
Country Yugoslavia
Language Macedonian
Macedonian Blood Wedding (film)
Macedonian Blood Wedding  (Macedonian :
Македонск а крвава свадба , romanized: Makedonska
krvava svadba ), also known as Bloodshed at the
Wedding , is a 1967  Yugoslav  historical drama  directed
by Macedonian director Trajče Popov . The screenplay
was written by Slavko Janevski  and is based on the
1900 play of the same name by playwright Voydan
Chernodrinski . The film was released through the
production company Vardar Film. It tells the story of a
young Macedonian woman Cveta who is kidnapped by
a Turkish bey in North Macedonia  under the rule of the
Ottoman Empire . It follows her resistance to
converting to Islam  and renouncing her national
identity along with the uprising of the locals against
the Ottomans.
The movie is based in Ottoman Vardar Macedonia  and
tells the story of a young woman named Cveta who is
kidnapped by an Ottoman Turk in hopes of eloping
with her. The film shows Macedonian villagers
working on the fields for one of the numerous beys in
the region . The bey is trying to persecute a Turkish
man and wants to punish him for his progressive ideas.
One of the Macedonian villagers, Spase the shepherd,
helps the man escape which subsequently brings the
bey to the fields where the villagers do their work.
Present among the working villagers is Cveta, who
stands out from the crowd with her beauty . The bey
kidnaps the girl and takes her to his saray  along with
the other women-wives who form part of his harem .
At the saray , Cveta is pressured to change her religion ,
renounce her family and adopt the Ottoman culture  and
values and eventually become one of the Bey's many
submissive wives. To lure her in, the bey promises her
fortune and an easy life. When the other villagers find
out about the bey's forceful acts against her will, they
gather in front of his house led by a priest and SpaseSynopsis(Cveta's love interest), and they demand that she be freed. Since their attempt is not successful, they take
the case to court. Diplomatic lawyers from Bitola  get involved in the case and they rule that Cveta go
back to her family .
Once free again, she decides to marry Spase and they start preparing for their wedding in the fictional
village Stradalovo. However , during the celebrations the bey comes togethe r with his soldiers in an
attempt to prevent the event. He faces Spase and tries to shoot him for stealin g his wife. Cveta goes in
front of Spase and the bullet kills her immediately . Furious and heartbroken, all the villagers rise against
the Turks in a heated armed conflict with a lot of victims. Spase and the bey fight with each other , and the
former kills the bey by hitting him with a rock on the head and running away to join the rebel band
Komitadji  to fight against the Ottoman rule in the region. The film ends with the villagers mourning and
burying Cveta.
Risto Šiškov as Osman Bey
Vera Čukić  as Cveta, the kidnapped girl
Zafir Hadzhimanov as Spase, Cveta's love interest
Petre Prličko  as Mojso
Pavle V uisić as Damjan the Priest
Janez V rhovec as Kuzman
Dragomir Felba as Orhan
Nikola Kole Angelovski as Kole Angelovski
Ilija Milčin as the "valija" i.e. the governor
Macedonian Blood Wedding  is a film adaptation of the eponymous play by Voydan Chernodrins ki first
published and shown in theaters in Sofia, Bulgaria  in 1900. This book is considered one of the most
important works in Macedonian literature  in North Macedonia .[1]
The film takes place  in the second half of the 19th century , a period during which North Macedonia was
still under the rule of the Ottoman Empire  and local Slavic population  was subjected to Islamization  and
oppression. It is set in the period of the empire being in a state of anarchy , durin g which the Turks widely
terrorized the population.[2] As such, both the original play and the film's main topic are the unbearable
life of the Macedon ian population.[1] Macedonian Blood Wedding  mark ed Popov's directorial debut. It
was releas ed through the production company Vardar Film which also released the first-ever Macedonian
film Frosina  (1952). Filming took place in several cities in then SR Maced onia including  Bitola , Tetovo
as well as the produ ction company's studios in the country's capital Skopje . The film was show n in Ohrid
in early June 1968.[2] The musi c score for the film was written by Kiril Makedonski  and was performed
by the Slovenian filharmonia.[2]Cast
Backgr ound and pr oduction
AwardsFollowing the film's screening at the Croatian  Pula Film Festival  in 1968, Nikola Lazarevski received a
Golden Arena for Best Production Design . The following year, the film received  a Golden award with
Lenin 's face to honor its success in the Soviet Union .[2]
Macedonian Blood W edding
List of Macedonian films
List of Yugoslavian films
Cinema of North Macedonia
1. Belčev , Tole; Mladenoski, Ranko (2006). " "Македонск а крв ава свадба" – нови
интерпре тативни аспек ти" ["Macedonian Blood W edding" - New Interpretative Aspects].
Yearbook Faculty of Philology  (in Macedonian). Faculty of Philology , Goce Delčev University
of Štip .
2. Simjanoski, Gjoko (6 December 2017). "50 г одини на филмо т "Македонск а Крв ава
Свадба"" (https://www .publicitet.mk/filmoljubie/item/6652-50-godini-na-filmot-makedonska-k
rvava-svadba)  [50 years of the film Macedonian Blood W edding] (in Macedonian).
Publicitet.mk . Retrieved 14 February  2020 .
Macedonia Blood W edding at the Macedonian Cinema Information Center  (https://web.archi
ve.org/web/20070928082010/http://www .maccinema.com/e_filmovi_detali.asp?IDMAKFILM
=66)
Bloodshed at the W edding  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0179957/)  at IMDb
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Macedonian_Blood_Wedding_(film)&oldid=1256378059"See also
Refer ences
External links
