M i c r o - P h o n i e s
Lobby card for Micro-Phonies. Columbia
Pictures incorrectly listed Harry Edwards as
director instead of Ed Bernds.
Directed by Edward Bernds
Written by Edward Bernds
Produced by Hugh McCollum
Starring Moe Howard
Larry Fine
Curly Howard
Christine McIntyre
Symona Boniface
Gino Corrado
Fred Kelsey
Lynton Brent
Ted Lorch
Heinie Conklin
Chester Conklin
Judy Malcolm
Cinematography Glen Gano
Edited by Henry Batista
Distributed by Columbia Pictures
Release date November 15, 1945
(U.S.)
Running time 16:53
Country United States
Language English
Micro-Phonies
Micro-Phonies  is a 1945 short subject  directed by
Edward Bernds  starring American slapstick  comedy
team The Three Stooges  (Moe Howard , Larry Fine and
Curly Howard ). It is the 87th entry in the series
released by Columbia Pictures  starring the comedians,
who released 190 shorts for the studio between 1934
and 1959.
In their roles as handymen at radio station KGBY , the
Stooges engage in a series of mishaps while attempting
to connect  a pipe to a radiator . Their antics lead to a
confrontation with their boss, resulting in further chaos
as they inadvertentl y damage property and irritate an
Italian baritone singer and pianist in a neighboring
session. Seeking refuge, they stum ble into the
recording room of aspiring singer Alice Van Doren,
where they serendipitously discove r her record,
"Voices of Spring ."
Impressed by Alice's operatic prowess , the Stooges,
with Curly impersonating her voice while disguised as
a wom an, catch the attention of radio host Mrs. Bixby ,
who hires them for a radio performance. A dispute
ensues among the Stooges just before their
performance, leadin g to Moe impulsiv ely breaking a
record over Curly's head, ironically , in an attempt to
safeguard it. Larry improvises by hastily selecting the
"Lucia Sextet " from a collection of records,
misidentifying it as the "Sextet from  Lucy ." This
selection necessitates pantomime by all three Stooges,
which proceeds smoothly until the Italian baritone
recognizes them and interrupts the performance by
unplugging the phonograph. This abrupt halt leaves the
trio groan ing in disappointment, with Curly feigning
the loss of his voice as an excuse.PlotNevertheless, Alice' s genuine talent is recognized by her father , prompting him to support her musical
aspirations. Meanwh ile, the Stooges face ridicule from the party guests, symbolized by being pelted with
records as they hastily depart the scene.
Micr o-Phonies  was filmed on June 4–7, 1945, several months after Curly Howard  suffered a mild
stroke .[1] His performances were marred by slurred speech and slower timing. Though  Micr o-Phonies
was the first film released that was directed by novice director Edward Bernds , it was not his first attempt
(the first being A Bird in the Head ). Understandably , Bernds was excited at his big chance to direct, but
was shocked when he saw how ill Curly had become.[2] Years later, Bernd s discussed his trying
experience during the filming of A Bird in the Head :
"It was an awful tough deal for a novice rookie director to have a Curly who wasn't himself.[3] I
had seen Curly at his greatest and his work in this film was far from great. The wallpaper scene
was agony to direct because of the physical movements required to roll up the wallpaper and to
react when  it curled up in him. It just didn't work. As a fledgling director , my plans were based
on doing everything in one nice neat shot. But when I saw the scenes were not playing, I had to
improvise and use other angles to make it play. It was the wallpaper scene that we shot first,
and during the first two hours of filming, I became aware that we had a problem with Curly ."[2]
Bernds feared that his directing days would be over as soon as they began if A Bird in the Head  (featuring
a sluggish  Curly) was released as his first effort. Producer Hugh McC ollum  acted quickly , and reshuf fled
the release order of the films Bernds had directed (Bernds had already completed Micr o-Phonies  and The
Three Troubledoers  in addition to A Bird in the Head ). As a result, the superior Micr o-Phonies  (in which
Curly was in much better form) was released first, securing Bernds's directing position. Bernds would
forever be indebted to McCollum for this act of kindness; henceforth, McCollum produced all of Bernds's
Stooge films.[3]
Bernds later recalled how Curly's condition was inconsistent:
"...it was strange the way he [Curly] went up and down. In the order I shot the pictures, not in
the order they were released, he was down for A Bird in the Head  and The Three Troubledoers ,
he was up for Micr o-Phonies , way down  for Monkey Businessmen  and then up again, for the
last time, in Three Little Pirates ."[4]
Footage was reused in the 1960 compilation feature film Stop! Look! and Laugh!
Moe:  "Quiet, numbskulls, I'm broadcasting!"
Moe:  (looking over a few records ) "'Sextet by Lucy' ..." ( turns to Curly ) "Can you sing it?"Production notes
QuotesCurly:  "I can't even SA Y it!"
1. Micro-Phonies threestooges.net  (http://threestooges.net/filmography/episode/87)
2. Howard Maurer , Joan ; Jeff Lenburg; Greg Lenburg (2013) [1982]. The Three Stooges
Scrapbook . Citadel Press. p. 76. ISBN  978-0-8065-0946-4 .
3. Fleming, Michael (2002) [1999]. The Three Stooges: An Illustrated History , From
Amalgamated Morons to American Icons  (https://books.google.com/books?id=iPIAAAAACA
AJ). Broadway Publishing. pp. 79, 80. ISBN  0-7679-0556-3 .
4. Okuda, Ted; W atz, Edward; (1986). The Columbia Comedy Shorts , pp. 66-67, McFarland &
Company , Inc., Publishers. ISBN  0-89950-181-8
Micro-Phonies  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0037911/)  at IMDb
‹The template AllMovie title is being considered for deletion.› Micro-Phonies  (https://www .allmovie.co
m/movie/v140823)  at AllMovie
Micro-Phonies threestooges.net  (http://threestooges.net/filmography/episode/87)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Micro-Phonies&oldid=1234947260"Refer ences
External links
