D u n d e r k l u m p e n !
Theatrical release poster
Directed by Per Åhlin
Written by Beppe Wolgers
Produced by Gunnar Carlsson
Starring Beppe Wolgers
Jens Wolgers
Halvar Björk
Håkan Serner
Gösta Ekman
Toots Thielemans
Lotten Strömstedt
Sif Ruud
Birgitta Andersson
Hans Alfredson
Stig Grybe
Bert-Åke Varg
CinematographyLennart Carlsson
Pelle Svensson
Edited by Per Åhlin
Music by Toots Thielemans
Production
companyG.K. Film
Dunderklumpen!
Dunderklumpen!  is a 1974 Swed ish family film
directed by Per Åhlin, which combines animation and
live actio n. The story involves several musi cal
numbers. It was released on 26 Septemb er 1974. At the
11th Guldbagge Awards , Åhlin won a Special
Achievement award for the film.[1]
On a summer evening in northern Sweden, when the
sun doesn't quite set, Dunderklumpen (an animated
character) comes out of the woods to seek some friends
to keep him company . He comes upon a "human"
house of the Wolgers family where Dunderklumpen
finds toys belonging to a boy named Jens and his
young sister . Using his magic, Dunderklumpen brings
the toys to life and takes them away to the woods
where he lives. This adorable and amusing crew
includes the small but fiercely brave lion Lionel, the
demanding toy girl Doll, the cute harm onica-playing
bear Pellegnillot, and the ridiculous  Dummy the
Bunny .
Jens hears and sees the toys crying  for help and
follows Dunderklumpen who is not so quick to
surrender his new-found company . They are also
followed by Jens's Father who goes searching for his
runaway son and is accompanied by the dutiful
Bumblebee. Dunder klumpen also has a small locked
chest (that he took from the children's room) with him
and believes it contains a great treasure. One-Eye, an
old nemes is of Dunderklumpen, also seeks the treasure
for himself and pursues our heroes. No one knows
what the contents are but Dunderklum pen and One-
Eye are both sure it's priceless. One-E ye's signature
tool is a small counterfeiting machine he uses to
beguile the toys and Dunderklumpen.
Following Dunderkl umpen into the woods, Jens meets
a flower with the name Blossom, which travels on an
umbrella and helps him along the way. The gang alsoPlotDistributed by Europa Film-Stockholm
Film
Release date 26 September 1974
Running time 97 minutes
Country Sweden
Language Swedishmeets the flying paper Malte (one of Jens's drawings
come to life), the living-talking mountain Jorm, and an
elderly woman named Elvira Fattigan who's an old
friend of One-Eye.
In the end Elvira reminds One-Eye that his fall from
grace came after encountering human materialism, and
soon the chest is found to contain a feather , a
dandelion and a rock that are considere d treasures to a
child. Realizing the chest had no valuables but cherished treasures, everyon e celebrates in song and
dance, One-Eye becomes friends with Dunderklumpen, the toys stay behind with the both of them and
Jens and his father return home together .
Beppe
Jens
Kerstin W olgers
Camilla W olgers - Camilla
Character Original English
Dunderklumpen
Halvar BjörkKenneth Harver
Jätten (Jorm) Chuck Magruder
Lejonel (Lionel) Håkan Serner Jerry Sroka
En-Dum-En (Dummy) Gösta Ekman Don Scardino
Pellegnillot Toots Thielemans
Dockan (Doll) Lotten StrömstedtLiane Curtis
Elvira Fattigan Sif Ruud Paulette Rubinstein
Blomhåret (Blossom) Birgitta AnderssonRose Marie Jun
Humlan (Bumblebee) Hans Alfredson Jeny Sroka
Enöga (One-Eye) Stig Grybe Bill Marine
Huset som pratar (Old House)Bert-Åke Varg George Coe
Vattenfallet (Waterfall) Beppe Wolgers Unknown
1. "Dunderklumpen (1974)"  (http://www .sfi.se/en-GB/Swedish-film-database/Item/?type=MOVICast
Voices
Refer encesE&itemid=4929&iv=A wards) . Swedish Film Institute. 5 March 2014.
Dunderklumpen!  (https://www .imdb.com/title/tt0071448/)  at IMDb
Dunderklumpen!  (https://www .svenskfilmdatabas.se/en/item/?type=film&itemid=4929)  at the
Swedish Film Institute Database
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dunderklumpen!&oldid=1220746091"External links
